LJ041-0001|Report of the President's Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy. The Warren Commission Report. By The President's Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy.|Report of the President's Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy. The Warren Commission Report. By The President's Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy.
LJ041-0002|Chapter 7. Lee Harvey Oswald: Background and Possible Motives, Part 2.|Chapter seven. Lee Harvey Oswald: Background and Possible Motives, Part two.
LJ041-0003|Return to New Orleans and Joining the Marine Corps|Return to New Orleans and Joining the Marine Corps
LJ041-0004|After his return to New Orleans Oswald was teased at school because of the northern accent which he had acquired.|After his return to New Orleans Oswald was teased at school because of the northern accent which he had acquired.
LJ041-0005|He concluded that school had nothing to offer him.|He concluded that school had nothing to offer him.
LJ041-0006|His mother exercised little control over him and thought he could decide for himself whether to go on in school.|His mother exercised little control over him and thought he could decide for himself whether to go on in school.
LJ041-0007|Neighbors and others who knew him at that time recall an introverted boy who read a great deal.|Neighbors and others who knew him at that time recall an introverted boy who read a great deal.
LJ041-0008|He took walks and visited museums, and sometimes rode a rented bicycle in the park on Saturday mornings.|He took walks and visited museums, and sometimes rode a rented bicycle in the park on Saturday mornings.
LJ041-0009|Mrs. Murret believes that he talked at length with a girl on the telephone, but no one remembers that he had any dates.|Mrs. Murret believes that he talked at length with a girl on the telephone, but no one remembers that he had any dates.
LJ041-0010|A friend, Edward Voebel, testified that, quote, he was more bashful about girls than anything else, end quote.|A friend, Edward Voebel, testified that, quote, he was more bashful about girls than anything else, end quote.
LJ041-0011|Several witnesses testified that Lee Oswald was not aggressive. He was, however, involved in some fights.|Several witnesses testified that Lee Oswald was not aggressive. He was, however, involved in some fights.
LJ041-0012|Once a group of white boys beat him up for sitting in the Negro section of a bus, which he apparently did simply out of ignorance.|Once a group of white boys beat him up for sitting in the Negro section of a bus, which he apparently did simply out of ignorance.
LJ041-0013|Another time, he fought with two brothers who claimed that he had picked on the younger of them, 3 years Oswald's junior.|Another time, he fought with two brothers who claimed that he had picked on the younger of them, three years Oswald's junior.
LJ041-0014|Two days later, quote, some big guy, probably from a high school -- he looked like a tremendous football player, end quote,|Two days later, quote, some big guy, probably from a high school -- he looked like a tremendous football player, end quote,
LJ041-0015|accosted Oswald on the way home from school and punched him in the mouth, making his lip bleed and loosening a tooth.|accosted Oswald on the way home from school and punched him in the mouth, making his lip bleed and loosening a tooth.
LJ041-0016|Voebel took Oswald back to the school to attend to his wounds, and their, quote, mild friendship, end quote, stemmed from that incident.|Voebel took Oswald back to the school to attend to his wounds, and their, quote, mild friendship, end quote, stemmed from that incident.
LJ041-0017|Voebel also recalled that Oswald once outlined a plan to cut the glass in the window of a store on Rampart Street and steal a pistol,|Voebel also recalled that Oswald once outlined a plan to cut the glass in the window of a store on Rampart Street and steal a pistol,
LJ041-0018|but he was not sure then that Oswald meant to carry out the plan, and in fact they never did.|but he was not sure then that Oswald meant to carry out the plan, and in fact they never did.
LJ041-0019|Voebel said that Oswald, quote, wouldn't start any fights, but if you wanted to start one with him, he was going to make sure that he ended it,|Voebel said that Oswald, quote, wouldn't start any fights, but if you wanted to start one with him, he was going to make sure that he ended it,
LJ041-0020|or you were going to really have one, because he wasn't going to take anything from anybody, end quote.|or you were going to really have one, because he wasn't going to take anything from anybody, end quote.
LJ041-0021|In a space for the names of, quote, close friends, end quote, on the ninth grade personal history record,|In a space for the names of, quote, close friends, end quote, on the ninth grade personal history record,
LJ041-0022|Oswald first wrote, quote, Edward Vogel, end quote, an obvious misspelling of Voebel's name,|Oswald first wrote, quote, Edward Vogel, end quote, an obvious misspelling of Voebel's name,
LJ041-0023|and, quote, Arthor Abear, end quote, most likely Arthur Hebert, a classmate who has said that he did not know Oswald well.|and, quote, Arthor Abear, end quote, most likely Arthur Hebert, a classmate who has said that he did not know Oswald well.
LJ041-0024|Oswald erased those names, however, and indicated that he had no close friends.|Oswald erased those names, however, and indicated that he had no close friends.
LJ041-0025|It has been suggested that this misspelling of names, apparently on a phonetic basis, was caused by a reading-spelling disability|It has been suggested that this misspelling of names, apparently on a phonetic basis, was caused by a reading-spelling disability
LJ041-0026|from which Oswald appeared to suffer.|from which Oswald appeared to suffer.
LJ041-0027|Other evidence of the existence of such a disability is provided by the many other misspellings that appear in Oswald's writings, portions of which are quoted below.|Other evidence of the existence of such a disability is provided by the many other misspellings that appear in Oswald's writings, portions of which are quoted below.
LJ041-0028|Sometime during this period, and under circumstances to be discussed more fully below,|Sometime during this period, and under circumstances to be discussed more fully below,
LJ041-0029|Oswald started to read Communist literature, which he obtained from the public library.|Oswald started to read Communist literature, which he obtained from the public library.
LJ041-0030|One of his fellow employees, Palmer McBride, stated that Oswald said he would like to kill President Eisenhower because he was exploiting the working class.|One of his fellow employees, Palmer McBride, stated that Oswald said he would like to kill President Eisenhower because he was exploiting the working class.
LJ041-0031|Oswald praised Khrushchev and suggested that he and McBride join the Communist Party, quote, to take advantage of their social functions, end quote.|Oswald praised Khrushchev and suggested that he and McBride join the Communist Party, quote, to take advantage of their social functions, end quote.
LJ041-0032|Oswald also became interested in the New Orleans Amateur Astronomy Association, an organization of high school students.|Oswald also became interested in the New Orleans Amateur Astronomy Association, an organization of high school students.
LJ041-0033|The association's then president, William E. Wulf, testified that he remembered an occasion when Oswald, quote,|The association's then president, William E. Wulf, testified that he remembered an occasion when Oswald, quote,
LJ041-0034|started expounding the Communist doctrine and saying that he was highly interested in communism, that communism was the only way of life for the worker, et cetera,|started expounding the Communist doctrine and saying that he was highly interested in communism, that communism was the only way of life for the worker, et cetera,
LJ041-0035|and then came out with a statement that he was looking for a Communist cell in town to join but he couldn't find any.|and then came out with a statement that he was looking for a Communist cell in town to join but he couldn't find any.
LJ041-0036|He was a little dismayed at this, and he said that he couldn't find any that would show any interest in him as a Communist,|He was a little dismayed at this, and he said that he couldn't find any that would show any interest in him as a Communist,
LJ041-0037|and subsequently, after this conversation, my father came in and we were kind of arguing back and forth about the situation, and my father came in the room,|and subsequently, after this conversation, my father came in and we were kind of arguing back and forth about the situation, and my father came in the room,
LJ041-0038|heard what we were arguing on communism, and that this boy was loud-mouthed, boisterous, and my father asked him to leave the house and politely put him out of the house,|heard what we were arguing on communism, and that this boy was loud-mouthed, boisterous, and my father asked him to leave the house and politely put him out of the house,
LJ041-0039|and that is the last I have seen or spoken with Oswald. End quote.|and that is the last I have seen or spoken with Oswald. End quote.
LJ041-0040|Despite this apparent interest in communism, Oswald tried to join the Marines when he was 16 years old.|Despite this apparent interest in communism, Oswald tried to join the Marines when he was sixteen years old.
LJ041-0041|This was 1 year before his actual enlistment and just a little over 2.5 years after he left New York.|This was one year before his actual enlistment and just a little over two point five years after he left New York.
LJ041-0042|He wrote a note in his mother's name to school authorities in New Orleans saying that he was leaving school because he and his mother were moving to San Diego.|He wrote a note in his mother's name to school authorities in New Orleans saying that he was leaving school because he and his mother were moving to San Diego.
LJ041-0043|In fact, he had quit school in an attempt to obtain his mother's assistance to join the Marines.|In fact, he had quit school in an attempt to obtain his mother's assistance to join the Marines.
LJ041-0044|While he apparently was able to induce his mother to make a false statement about his age|While he apparently was able to induce his mother to make a false statement about his age
LJ041-0045|he was nevertheless unable to convince the proper authorities that he was really 17 years old.|he was nevertheless unable to convince the proper authorities that he was really seventeen years old.
LJ041-0046|There is evidence that Oswald was greatly influenced in his decision to join the Marines by the fact that his brother Robert had done so|There is evidence that Oswald was greatly influenced in his decision to join the Marines by the fact that his brother Robert had done so
LJ041-0047|approximately 3 years before. Robert Oswald had given his Marine Corps manual to his brother Lee,|approximately three years before. Robert Oswald had given his Marine Corps manual to his brother Lee,
LJ041-0048|who studied it during the year following his unsuccessful attempt to enlist until, quote, He knew it by heart, end quote.|who studied it during the year following his unsuccessful attempt to enlist until, quote, He knew it by heart, end quote.
LJ041-0049|According to Marguerite Oswald, quote, Lee lived for the time that he would become 17 years old to join the Marines -- that whole year, end quote.|According to Marguerite Oswald, quote, Lee lived for the time that he would become seventeen years old to join the Marines -- that whole year, end quote.
LJ041-0050|In John Pic's view,|In John Pic's view,
LJ041-0051|Oswald was motivated to join the Marines in large part by a desire, quote, to get from out and under the yoke of oppression from my mother, end quote.|Oswald was motivated to join the Marines in large part by a desire, quote, to get from out and under the yoke of oppression from my mother, end quote.
LJ041-0052|Oswald's inability or lack of desire to enter into meaningful relationships with other people|Oswald's inability or lack of desire to enter into meaningful relationships with other people
LJ041-0053|continued during this period in New Orleans (1954 to 1956).|continued during this period in New Orleans (nineteen fifty-four to nineteen fifty-six).
LJ041-0054|It probably contributed greatly to the general dissatisfaction which he exhibited with his environment,|It probably contributed greatly to the general dissatisfaction which he exhibited with his environment,
LJ041-0055|a dissatisfaction which seemed to find expression at this particular point|a dissatisfaction which seemed to find expression at this particular point
LJ041-0056|in his intense desire to join the Marines and get away from his surroundings and his mother.|in his intense desire to join the Marines and get away from his surroundings and his mother.
LJ041-0057|His study of Communist literature,|His study of Communist literature,
LJ041-0058|which might appear to be inconsistent with his desire to join the Marines, could have been another manifestation of Oswald's rejection of his environment.|which might appear to be inconsistent with his desire to join the Marines, could have been another manifestation of Oswald's rejection of his environment.
LJ041-0059|His difficulty in relating to other people and his general dissatisfaction with the world around him continued while he was in the Marine Corps.|His difficulty in relating to other people and his general dissatisfaction with the world around him continued while he was in the Marine Corps.
LJ041-0060|Kerry Thornley, a marine associate,|Kerry Thornley, a marine associate,
LJ041-0061|who, shortly after Oswald's defection, wrote an as yet unpublished novel based in considerable part on Oswald's life,|who, shortly after Oswald's defection, wrote an as yet unpublished novel based in considerable part on Oswald's life,
LJ041-0062|testified that, quote, definitely the Marine Corps was not what he had expected it to be when he joined, end quote,|testified that, quote, definitely the Marine Corps was not what he had expected it to be when he joined, end quote,
LJ041-0063|He said that Oswald, quote, seemed to guard against developing real close friendships, end quote,|He said that Oswald, quote, seemed to guard against developing real close friendships, end quote,
LJ041-0064|Daniel Powers, another marine who was stationed with Oswald for part of his marine career,|Daniel Powers, another marine who was stationed with Oswald for part of his marine career,
LJ041-0065|testified that Oswald seemed, quote, always to be striving for a relationship, but whenever he did|testified that Oswald seemed, quote, always to be striving for a relationship, but whenever he did
LJ041-0066|his general personality would alienate the group against him, end quote.|his general personality would alienate the group against him, end quote.
LJ041-0067|Other marines also testified that Oswald had few friends and kept very much to himself.|Other marines also testified that Oswald had few friends and kept very much to himself.
LJ041-0068|While there is nothing in Oswald's military records to indicate that he was mentally unstable or otherwise psychologically unfit for duty in the Marine Corps,|While there is nothing in Oswald's military records to indicate that he was mentally unstable or otherwise psychologically unfit for duty in the Marine Corps,
LJ041-0069|he did not adjust well to conditions which he found in that service.|he did not adjust well to conditions which he found in that service.
LJ041-0070|He did not rise above the rank of private first class, even though he had passed a qualifying examination for the rank of corporal.|He did not rise above the rank of private first class, even though he had passed a qualifying examination for the rank of corporal.
LJ041-0071|His Marine career was not helped by his attitude|His Marine career was not helped by his attitude
LJ041-0072|that he was a man of great ability and intelligence and that many of his superiors in the Marine Corps were not sufficiently competent to give him orders.|that he was a man of great ability and intelligence and that many of his superiors in the Marine Corps were not sufficiently competent to give him orders.
LJ041-0073|While Oswald did not seem to object to authority in the abstract, he did think that he should be the one to exercise it.|While Oswald did not seem to object to authority in the abstract, he did think that he should be the one to exercise it.
LJ041-0074|John E. Donovan, one of his former officers, testified that Oswald thought, quote,|John E. Donovan, one of his former officers, testified that Oswald thought, quote,
LJ041-0075|that authority, particularly the Marine Corps, ought to be able to recognize talent such as his own, without a given magic college degree,|that authority, particularly the Marine Corps, ought to be able to recognize talent such as his own, without a given magic college degree,
LJ041-0076|and put them in positions of prominence, end quote. Oswald manifested this feeling about authority by baiting his officers.|and put them in positions of prominence, end quote. Oswald manifested this feeling about authority by baiting his officers.
LJ041-0077|He led them into discussions of foreign affairs about which they often knew less than he did, since he had apparently devoted considerable time to a study of such matters.|He led them into discussions of foreign affairs about which they often knew less than he did, since he had apparently devoted considerable time to a study of such matters.
LJ041-0078|When the officers were unable to discuss foreign affairs satisfactorily with him, Oswald regarded them as unfit to exercise command over him.|When the officers were unable to discuss foreign affairs satisfactorily with him, Oswald regarded them as unfit to exercise command over him.
LJ041-0079|Nelson Delgado, one of Oswald's fellow Marines, testified that Oswald tried to, quote, cut up anybody that was high ranking, end quote,|Nelson Delgado, one of Oswald's fellow Marines, testified that Oswald tried to, quote, cut up anybody that was high ranking, end quote,
LJ041-0080|in those arguments, quote, and make himself come out top dog, end quote.|in those arguments, quote, and make himself come out top dog, end quote.
LJ041-0081|Oswald probably engaged his superiors in arguments on a subject that he had studied|Oswald probably engaged his superiors in arguments on a subject that he had studied
LJ041-0082|in an attempt to attract attention to himself and to support his exaggerated idea of his own abilities.|in an attempt to attract attention to himself and to support his exaggerated idea of his own abilities.
LJ041-0083|Thornley also testified that he thought that Oswald's extreme personal sloppiness in the Marine Corps, quote,|Thornley also testified that he thought that Oswald's extreme personal sloppiness in the Marine Corps, quote,
LJ041-0084|fitted into a general personality pattern of his: to do whatever was not wanted of him, a recalcitrant trend in his personality, end quote,|fitted into a general personality pattern of his: to do whatever was not wanted of him, a recalcitrant trend in his personality, end quote,
LJ041-0085|Oswald, quote, seemed to be a person who would go out of his way to get into trouble, end quote,|Oswald, quote, seemed to be a person who would go out of his way to get into trouble, end quote,
LJ041-0086|and then used the, quote, special treatment, end quote, he received as an example of the way in which he was being picked on and, quote,|and then used the, quote, special treatment, end quote, he received as an example of the way in which he was being picked on and, quote,
LJ041-0087|as a means of getting or attempting to get sympathy, end quote. In Thornley's view, Oswald labored under a persecution complex|as a means of getting or attempting to get sympathy, end quote. In Thornley's view, Oswald labored under a persecution complex
LJ041-0088|which he strove to maintain and, quote, felt the Marine Corps kept a pretty close watch on him because of his subversive activities, end quote.|which he strove to maintain and, quote, felt the Marine Corps kept a pretty close watch on him because of his subversive activities, end quote.
LJ041-0089|Thornley added, quote, I think it was kind of necessary to him to believe that he was being picked on.|Thornley added, quote, I think it was kind of necessary to him to believe that he was being picked on.
LJ041-0090|It wasn't anything extreme. I wouldn't go as far as to call it, call him a paranoid, but a definite tendency there was in that direction, I think, end quote.|It wasn't anything extreme. I wouldn't go as far as to call it, call him a paranoid, but a definite tendency there was in that direction, I think, end quote.
LJ041-0091|Powers considered Oswald to be meek and easily led|Powers considered Oswald to be meek and easily led
LJ041-0092|an, quote, individual that you would brainwash, and quite easy, but I think once he believed in something, he stood in his beliefs, end quote.|an, quote, individual that you would brainwash, and quite easy, but I think once he believed in something, he stood in his beliefs, end quote.
LJ041-0093|Powers also testified that Oswald was reserved and seemed to be, quote, somewhat the frail, little puppy in the litter, end quote.|Powers also testified that Oswald was reserved and seemed to be, quote, somewhat the frail, little puppy in the litter, end quote.
LJ041-0094|He had the nickname, quote, Ozzie Rabbit, end quote.|He had the nickname, quote, Ozzie Rabbit, end quote.
LJ041-0095|Oswald read a good deal, said Powers, but, quote, he would never be reading any of the shoot-em-up westerns or anything like that.|Oswald read a good deal, said Powers, but, quote, he would never be reading any of the shoot-em-up westerns or anything like that.
LJ041-0096|Normally, it would be a good type of literature; and the one that I recall was "Leaves of Grass," by Walt Whitman, end quote.|Normally, it would be a good type of literature; and the one that I recall was "Leaves of Grass," by Walt Whitman, end quote.
LJ041-0097|According to Powers, Oswald said, quote,|According to Powers, Oswald said, quote,
LJ041-0099|Powers believed that when Oswald arrived in Japan he acquired a girlfriend, quote,|Powers believed that when Oswald arrived in Japan he acquired a girlfriend, quote,
LJ041-0100|finally attaining a male status or image in his own eyes, end quote. That apparently caused Oswald to become more self-confident,|finally attaining a male status or image in his own eyes, end quote. That apparently caused Oswald to become more self-confident,
LJ041-0101|aggressive and even somewhat pugnacious, although Powers, quote, wouldn't say that this guy is a troublemaker, end quote.|aggressive and even somewhat pugnacious, although Powers, quote, wouldn't say that this guy is a troublemaker, end quote.
LJ041-0102|Powers said, quote, now he was Oswald the man rather than Oswald the rabbit, end quote.|Powers said, quote, now he was Oswald the man rather than Oswald the rabbit, end quote.
LJ041-0103|Oswald once told Powers that he didn't care if he returned to the United States at all.|Oswald once told Powers that he didn't care if he returned to the United States at all.
LJ041-0104|While in Japan, Oswald's new found apparent self confidence and pugnaciousness|While in Japan, Oswald's new found apparent self confidence and pugnaciousness
LJ041-0105|led to an incident in which he spilled a drink on one of his sergeants and abusively challenged him to fight.|led to an incident in which he spilled a drink on one of his sergeants and abusively challenged him to fight.
LJ041-0106|At the court-martial hearing which followed, Oswald admitted that he had been rather drunk when the incident occurred.|At the court-martial hearing which followed, Oswald admitted that he had been rather drunk when the incident occurred.
LJ041-0107|He testified that he had felt the sergeant had a grudge against him and that he had unsuccessfully sought a transfer from the sergeant's unit.|He testified that he had felt the sergeant had a grudge against him and that he had unsuccessfully sought a transfer from the sergeant's unit.
LJ041-0108|He said that he had simply wanted to discuss the question with the sergeant and the drink had been spilled accidentally.|He said that he had simply wanted to discuss the question with the sergeant and the drink had been spilled accidentally.
LJ041-0109|The hearing officer agreed with the latter claim but found Oswald guilty of wrongfully using provoking words and sentenced him to 28 days,|The hearing officer agreed with the latter claim but found Oswald guilty of wrongfully using provoking words and sentenced him to twenty-eight days,
LJ041-0110|canceling the suspension of a 20-day sentence that Oswald had received in an earlier court-martial|canceling the suspension of a twenty-day sentence that Oswald had received in an earlier court-martial
LJ041-0111|for possessing an unauthorized pistol with which he had accidentally shot himself.|for possessing an unauthorized pistol with which he had accidentally shot himself.
LJ041-0112|At his own request,|At his own request,
LJ041-0113|Oswald was transferred from active duty to the Marine Corps Reserve under honorable conditions in September of 1959,|Oswald was transferred from active duty to the Marine Corps Reserve under honorable conditions in September of nineteen fifty-nine,
LJ041-0114|3 months prior to his regularly scheduled separation date, ostensibly to care for his mother who had been injured in an accident at her work.|three months prior to his regularly scheduled separation date, ostensibly to care for his mother who had been injured in an accident at her work.
LJ041-0115|He was undesirably discharged from the Marine Corps Reserve, to which he had been assigned on inactive status following his transfer from active duty,|He was undesirably discharged from the Marine Corps Reserve, to which he had been assigned on inactive status following his transfer from active duty,
LJ041-0116|after it was learned that he had defected to the Soviet Union.|after it was learned that he had defected to the Soviet Union.
LJ041-0117|In an attempt to have this discharge reversed,|In an attempt to have this discharge reversed,
LJ041-0118|Oswald wrote to then Secretary of the Navy Connally on January 30, 1962,|Oswald wrote to then Secretary of the Navy Connally on January thirty, nineteen sixty-two,
LJ041-0119|stating that he would, quote, employ all means to right this gross mistake or injustice, end quote.|stating that he would, quote, employ all means to right this gross mistake or injustice, end quote.
LJ041-0120|Governor Connally had just resigned to run for Governor of Texas, so he advised Oswald that he had forwarded the letter to his successor.|Governor Connally had just resigned to run for Governor of Texas, so he advised Oswald that he had forwarded the letter to his successor.
LJ041-0121|It is thus clear that Oswald knew that Governor Connally was never directly concerned with his discharge|It is thus clear that Oswald knew that Governor Connally was never directly concerned with his discharge
LJ041-0122|and he must have known that President Kennedy had had nothing to do with it.|and he must have known that President Kennedy had had nothing to do with it.
LJ041-0123|In that connection, it does not appear that Oswald ever expressed any dissatisfaction of any kind with either the President or Governor Connally.|In that connection, it does not appear that Oswald ever expressed any dissatisfaction of any kind with either the President or Governor Connally.
LJ041-0124|Marina Oswald testified that she, quote, had never heard anything bad about Kennedy from Lee. And he never had anything against him, end quote.|Marina Oswald testified that she, quote, had never heard anything bad about Kennedy from Lee. And he never had anything against him, end quote.
LJ041-0125|Mrs. Oswald said that her husband did not say anything about Governor Connally after his return to the United States. She testified, quote,|Mrs. Oswald said that her husband did not say anything about Governor Connally after his return to the United States. She testified, quote,
LJ041-0126|But while we were in Russia he spoke well of him. Lee said that when he would return to the United States he would vote for him for Governor, end quote.|But while we were in Russia he spoke well of him. Lee said that when he would return to the United States he would vote for him for Governor, end quote.
LJ041-0127|Oswald must have already learned that the Governor could not help him with his discharge because he was no longer Secretary of the Navy, at the time he made that remark.|Oswald must have already learned that the Governor could not help him with his discharge because he was no longer Secretary of the Navy, at the time he made that remark.
LJ041-0128|Even though Oswald apparently did not express any hostility against the President or Governor Connally,|Even though Oswald apparently did not express any hostility against the President or Governor Connally,
LJ041-0129|he continued to be concerned about his undesirable discharge. It is clear that he thought he had been unjustly treated.|he continued to be concerned about his undesirable discharge. It is clear that he thought he had been unjustly treated.
LJ041-0130|Probably his complaint was due to the fact that his discharge was not related to anything he had done while on active duty|Probably his complaint was due to the fact that his discharge was not related to anything he had done while on active duty
LJ041-0131|and also because he had not received any notice of the original discharge proceedings, since his whereabouts were not known.|and also because he had not received any notice of the original discharge proceedings, since his whereabouts were not known.
LJ041-0132|He continued his efforts to reverse the discharge by petitioning the Navy Discharge Review Board,|He continued his efforts to reverse the discharge by petitioning the Navy Discharge Review Board,
LJ041-0133|which finally declined to modify the discharge and so advised him in a letter dated July 1963.|which finally declined to modify the discharge and so advised him in a letter dated July nineteen sixty-three.
LJ041-0134|Governor Connally's connection with the discharge, although indirect, caused the Commission to consider whether he might have been Oswald's real target.|Governor Connally's connection with the discharge, although indirect, caused the Commission to consider whether he might have been Oswald's real target.
LJ041-0135|In that connection, it should be noted that Marina Oswald testified on September 6, 1964, that she thought her husband, quote,|In that connection, it should be noted that Marina Oswald testified on September six, nineteen sixty-four, that she thought her husband, quote,
LJ041-0136|was shooting at Connally rather than President Kennedy, end quote.|was shooting at Connally rather than President Kennedy, end quote.
LJ041-0137|In support of her conclusion Mrs. Oswald noted her husband's undesirable discharge|In support of her conclusion Mrs. Oswald noted her husband's undesirable discharge
LJ041-0138|and that she could not think of any reason why Oswald would want to kill President Kennedy.|and that she could not think of any reason why Oswald would want to kill President Kennedy.
LJ041-0139|It should be noted, however, that at the time Oswald fired the shots at the Presidential limousine the Governor occupied the seat in front of the President,|It should be noted, however, that at the time Oswald fired the shots at the Presidential limousine the Governor occupied the seat in front of the President,
LJ041-0140|and it would have been almost impossible for Oswald to have hit the Governor without hitting the President first.|and it would have been almost impossible for Oswald to have hit the Governor without hitting the President first.
LJ041-0141|Oswald could have shot the Governor as the car approached the Depository or as it was making the turn onto Elm Street.|Oswald could have shot the Governor as the car approached the Depository or as it was making the turn onto Elm Street.
LJ041-0142|Once it had started down Elm Street toward the Triple Underpass, however,|Once it had started down Elm Street toward the Triple Underpass, however,
LJ041-0143|the President almost completely blocked Oswald's view of the Governor prior to the time the first shot struck the President.|the President almost completely blocked Oswald's view of the Governor prior to the time the first shot struck the President.
LJ041-0144|Oswald would have had other and more favorable opportunities to strike at the Governor than on this occasion when, as a member of the President's party,|Oswald would have had other and more favorable opportunities to strike at the Governor than on this occasion when, as a member of the President's party,
LJ041-0145|he had more protection than usual. It would appear, therefore, that to the extent Oswald's undesirable discharge affected his motivation,|he had more protection than usual. It would appear, therefore, that to the extent Oswald's undesirable discharge affected his motivation,
LJ041-0146|it was more in terms of a general hostility against the government and its representatives rather than a grudge against any particular person.|it was more in terms of a general hostility against the government and its representatives rather than a grudge against any particular person.
LJ041-0147|Interest in Marxism|Interest in Marxism
LJ041-0148|As indicated above, Oswald started to read Communist literature after he and his mother left New York and moved to New Orleans.|As indicated above, Oswald started to read Communist literature after he and his mother left New York and moved to New Orleans.
LJ041-0149|He told Aline Mosby, a reporter who interviewed him after he arrived in Moscow, quote,|He told Aline Mosby, a reporter who interviewed him after he arrived in Moscow, quote,
LJ041-0150|I'm a Marxist. I became interested about the age of 15. From an ideological viewpoint.|I'm a Marxist. I became interested about the age of fifteen. From an ideological viewpoint.
LJ041-0151|An old lady handed me a pamphlet about saving the Rosenbergs. I looked at that paper and I still remember it for some reason, I don't know why. End quote.|An old lady handed me a pamphlet about saving the Rosenbergs. I looked at that paper and I still remember it for some reason, I don't know why. End quote.
LJ041-0152|Oswald studied Marxism after he joined the Marines and his sympathies in that direction and for the Soviet Union appear to have been widely known,|Oswald studied Marxism after he joined the Marines and his sympathies in that direction and for the Soviet Union appear to have been widely known,
LJ041-0153|at least in the unit to which he was assigned after his return from the Far East.|at least in the unit to which he was assigned after his return from the Far East.
LJ041-0154|His interest in Russia led some of his associates to call him "comrade" or "Oswaldskovitch."|His interest in Russia led some of his associates to call him "comrade" or "Oswaldskovitch."
LJ041-0155|He always wanted to play the red pieces in chess because, as he said in an apparently humorous context,|He always wanted to play the red pieces in chess because, as he said in an apparently humorous context,
LJ041-0156|he preferred the, quote, Red Army, end quote.|he preferred the, quote, Red Army, end quote.
LJ041-0157|He studied the Russian language, read a Russian language newspaper and seemed interested in what was going on in the Soviet Union.|He studied the Russian language, read a Russian language newspaper and seemed interested in what was going on in the Soviet Union.
LJ041-0158|Thornley, who thought Oswald had an "irrevocable conviction" that his Marxist beliefs were correct, testified, quote,|Thornley, who thought Oswald had an "irrevocable conviction" that his Marxist beliefs were correct, testified, quote,
LJ041-0159|I think you could sit down and argue with him for a number of years, and I don't think you could have changed his mind on that unless you knew why he believed it in the first place.|I think you could sit down and argue with him for a number of years, and I don't think you could have changed his mind on that unless you knew why he believed it in the first place.
LJ041-0160|I certainly don't. I don't think with any kind of formal argument you could have shaken that conviction. And that is why I say irrevocable.|I certainly don't. I don't think with any kind of formal argument you could have shaken that conviction. And that is why I say irrevocable.
LJ041-0161|It was just -- never getting back to looking at things from any other way once he had become a Marxist, whenever that was, end quote.|It was just -- never getting back to looking at things from any other way once he had become a Marxist, whenever that was, end quote.
LJ041-0162|Thornley also testified about an incident which grew|Thornley also testified about an incident which grew
LJ041-0163|out of a combination of Oswald's known Marxist sympathies and George Orwell's book "1984," one of Oswald's favorite books|out of a combination of Oswald's known Marxist sympathies and George Orwell's book "nineteen eighty-four," one of Oswald's favorite books
LJ041-0164|which Thornley read at Oswald's suggestion.|which Thornley read at Oswald's suggestion.
LJ041-0165|Shortly after Thornley finished reading that book the Marine unit to which both men were assigned was required to take part in a Saturday morning parade|Shortly after Thornley finished reading that book the Marine unit to which both men were assigned was required to take part in a Saturday morning parade
LJ041-0166|in honor of some retiring noncommissioned officers, an event which they both approached with little enthusiasm.|in honor of some retiring noncommissioned officers, an event which they both approached with little enthusiasm.
LJ041-0167|While waiting for the parade to start they talked briefly about "1984"|While waiting for the parade to start they talked briefly about "nineteen eighty-four"
LJ041-0168|even though Oswald seemed to be lost in his own thoughts. After a brief period of silence Oswald remarked on the stupidity of the parade|even though Oswald seemed to be lost in his own thoughts. After a brief period of silence Oswald remarked on the stupidity of the parade
LJ041-0169|and on how angry it made him, to which Thornley replied, quote, Well, comes the revolution you will change all that, end quote.|and on how angry it made him, to which Thornley replied, quote, Well, comes the revolution you will change all that, end quote.
LJ041-0170|Thornley testified, quote, At which time he looked at me like a betrayed Caesar and screamed, screamed definitely, "Not you, too, Thornley!"|Thornley testified, quote, At which time he looked at me like a betrayed Caesar and screamed, screamed definitely, "Not you, too, Thornley!"
LJ041-0171|And I remember his voice cracked as he said this. He was definitely disturbed at what I had said and I didn't really think I had said that much.|And I remember his voice cracked as he said this. He was definitely disturbed at what I had said and I didn't really think I had said that much.
LJ041-0172|I never said anything to him again and he never said anything to me again, end quote.|I never said anything to him again and he never said anything to me again, end quote.
LJ041-0173|Thornley said that he had made his remark only in the context of "1984"|Thornley said that he had made his remark only in the context of "nineteen eighty-four"
LJ041-0174|and had not intended any criticism of Oswald's political views which is the way in which, Thornley thought, Oswald took his remarks.|and had not intended any criticism of Oswald's political views which is the way in which, Thornley thought, Oswald took his remarks.
LJ041-0175|Lieutenant Donovan testified that Oswald thought that, quote, there were many grave injustices concerning the affairs in the international situation, end quote.|Lieutenant Donovan testified that Oswald thought that, quote, there were many grave injustices concerning the affairs in the international situation, end quote.
LJ041-0176|He recalled that Oswald had a specific interest in Latin America, particularly Cuba,|He recalled that Oswald had a specific interest in Latin America, particularly Cuba,
LJ041-0177|and expressed opposition to the Batista regime and sympathy for Castro, an attitude which, Donovan said, was, quote,|and expressed opposition to the Batista regime and sympathy for Castro, an attitude which, Donovan said, was, quote,
LJ041-0178|not unpopular, end quote, at that time. Donovan testified|not unpopular, end quote, at that time. Donovan testified
LJ041-0179|that he never heard Oswald express a desire personally to take part in the elimination of injustices anywhere in the world and that he, quote,|that he never heard Oswald express a desire personally to take part in the elimination of injustices anywhere in the world and that he, quote,
LJ041-0180|never heard him in any way, shape or form confess that he was a Communist, or that he ever thought about being a Communist, end quote.|never heard him in any way, shape or form confess that he was a Communist, or that he ever thought about being a Communist, end quote.
LJ041-0181|Delgado testified that Oswald was, quote, a complete believer that our way of government was not quite right, end quote.|Delgado testified that Oswald was, quote, a complete believer that our way of government was not quite right, end quote.
LJ041-0182|and believed that our Government did not have, quote, too much to offer, end quote, but was not in favor of, quote, the Communist way of life, end quote.|and believed that our Government did not have, quote, too much to offer, end quote, but was not in favor of, quote, the Communist way of life, end quote.
LJ041-0183|Delgado and Oswald talked more about Cuba than Russia, and sometimes imagined themselves as leaders in the Cuban Army or Government,|Delgado and Oswald talked more about Cuba than Russia, and sometimes imagined themselves as leaders in the Cuban Army or Government,
LJ041-0184|who might, quote, lead an expedition to some of these other islands and free them too, end quote.|who might, quote, lead an expedition to some of these other islands and free them too, end quote.
LJ041-0185|Thornley also believed that Oswald's Marxist beliefs led to an extraordinary view of history under which, quote, He looked upon the eyes of future people|Thornley also believed that Oswald's Marxist beliefs led to an extraordinary view of history under which, quote, He looked upon the eyes of future people
LJ041-0186|as some kind of tribunal,|as some kind of tribunal,
LJ041-0187|and he wanted to be on the winning side so that 10,000 years from-now people would look in the history books and say, "Well, this man was ahead of his time."|and he wanted to be on the winning side so that ten thousand years from-now people would look in the history books and say, "Well, this man was ahead of his time."
LJ041-0188|The eyes of the future became the eyes of God.|The eyes of the future became the eyes of God.
LJ041-0189|He was concerned with his image in history and I do think that is why he chose the particular method of defecting he chose and did it in the way he did.|He was concerned with his image in history and I do think that is why he chose the particular method of defecting he chose and did it in the way he did.
LJ041-0190|It got him in the newspapers. It did broadcast his name out, end quote.|It got him in the newspapers. It did broadcast his name out, end quote.
LJ041-0191|Thornley thought that Oswald not only wanted a place in history but also wanted to live comfortably in the present.|Thornley thought that Oswald not only wanted a place in history but also wanted to live comfortably in the present.
LJ041-0192|He testified that if Oswald could not have that, quote, degree of physical comfort that he expected or sought,|He testified that if Oswald could not have that, quote, degree of physical comfort that he expected or sought,
LJ041-0193|I think he would then throw himself entirely on the other thing he also wanted, which was the image in history.|I think he would then throw himself entirely on the other thing he also wanted, which was the image in history.
LJ041-0194|I think he wanted both if he could have them. If he didn't, he wanted to die with the knowledge that, or with the idea that he was somebody, end quote.|I think he wanted both if he could have them. If he didn't, he wanted to die with the knowledge that, or with the idea that he was somebody, end quote.
LJ041-0195|Oswald's interest in Marxism led some people to avoid him,|Oswald's interest in Marxism led some people to avoid him,
LJ041-0196|even though as his wife suggested, that interest may have been motivated by a desire to gain attention. He used his Marxist and associated activities|even though as his wife suggested, that interest may have been motivated by a desire to gain attention. He used his Marxist and associated activities
LJ041-0197|as excuses for his difficulties in getting along in the world, which were usually caused by entirely different factors.|as excuses for his difficulties in getting along in the world, which were usually caused by entirely different factors.
LJ041-0198|His use of those excuses to present himself to the world as a person who was being unfairly treated|His use of those excuses to present himself to the world as a person who was being unfairly treated
LJ041-0199|is shown most clearly by his employment relations after his return from the Soviet Union. Of course, he made his real problems worse to the extent|is shown most clearly by his employment relations after his return from the Soviet Union. Of course, he made his real problems worse to the extent
LJ041-0200|that his use of those excuses prevented him from discovering the real reasons for and attempting to overcome his difficulties.|that his use of those excuses prevented him from discovering the real reasons for and attempting to overcome his difficulties.
LJ041-0201|Of greater importance,|Of greater importance,
LJ041-0202|Oswald's commitment to Marxism contributed to the decisions which led him to defect to the Soviet Union in 1959, and later|Oswald's commitment to Marxism contributed to the decisions which led him to defect to the Soviet Union in nineteen fifty-nine, and later
LJ041-0203|to engage in activities on behalf of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee in the summer of 1963,|to engage in activities on behalf of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee in the summer of nineteen sixty-three,
LJ042-0001|Report of the President's Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy.|Report of the President's Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy.
LJ042-0002|The Warren Commission Report. By The President's Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy. Chapter 7. Lee Harvey Oswald:|The Warren Commission Report. By The President's Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy. Chapter seven. Lee Harvey Oswald:
LJ042-0003|Background and Possible Motives, Part 3.|Background and Possible Motives, Part three.
LJ042-0004|Defection to the Soviet Union|Defection to the Soviet Union
LJ042-0005|After Oswald left the Marine Corps in September of 1959, ostensibly to care for his mother,|After Oswald left the Marine Corps in September of nineteen fifty-nine, ostensibly to care for his mother,
LJ042-0006|he almost immediately left for the Soviet Union where he attempted to renounce his citizenship.|he almost immediately left for the Soviet Union where he attempted to renounce his citizenship.
LJ042-0007|At the age of 19, Oswald thus committed an act which was the most striking indication he had yet given|At the age of nineteen, Oswald thus committed an act which was the most striking indication he had yet given
LJ042-0008|of his willingness to act on his beliefs in quite extraordinary ways.|of his willingness to act on his beliefs in quite extraordinary ways.
LJ042-0009|While his defection resulted in part from Oswald's commitment to Marxism,|While his defection resulted in part from Oswald's commitment to Marxism,
LJ042-0010|it appears that personal and psychological factors were also involved.|it appears that personal and psychological factors were also involved.
LJ042-0011|On August 17, 1963, Oswald told Mr. William Stuckey,|On August seventeen, nineteen sixty-three, Oswald told Mr. William Stuckey,
LJ042-0012|who had arranged a radio debate on Oswald's activities on behalf of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee,|who had arranged a radio debate on Oswald's activities on behalf of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee,
LJ042-0013|that while he had begun to read Marx and Engels at the age of 15, the conclusive thing that made him decide that Marxism was the answer|that while he had begun to read Marx and Engels at the age of fifteen, the conclusive thing that made him decide that Marxism was the answer
LJ042-0014|was his service in Japan.|was his service in Japan.
LJ042-0015|He said living conditions over there convinced him something was wrong with the system, and that possibly Marxism was the answer.|He said living conditions over there convinced him something was wrong with the system, and that possibly Marxism was the answer.
LJ042-0016|He said it was in Japan that he made up his mind to go to Russia|He said it was in Japan that he made up his mind to go to Russia
LJ042-0018|On the other hand, at least one person who knew Oswald after his return thought that his defection had a more personal and psychological basis.|On the other hand, at least one person who knew Oswald after his return thought that his defection had a more personal and psychological basis.
LJ042-0019|The validity of the latter observation is borne out by some of the things Oswald wrote in connection with his defection|The validity of the latter observation is borne out by some of the things Oswald wrote in connection with his defection
LJ042-0020|indicating that his motivation was at least in part a personal one. On November 26, 1959,|indicating that his motivation was at least in part a personal one. On November twenty-six, nineteen fifty-nine,
LJ042-0021|shortly after he arrived in the Soviet Union, and probably before Soviet authorities had given him permission to stay indefinitely,|shortly after he arrived in the Soviet Union, and probably before Soviet authorities had given him permission to stay indefinitely,
LJ042-0022|he wrote to his brother Robert that the Soviet Union was a country which, quote, I have always considered to be my own, end quote,|he wrote to his brother Robert that the Soviet Union was a country which, quote, I have always considered to be my own, end quote,
LJ042-0023|and that he went there, quote, only to find freedom. I could never have been personally happy in the U.S., end quote.|and that he went there, quote, only to find freedom. I could never have been personally happy in the U.S., end quote.
LJ042-0024|He wrote in another letter that he would, quote, never return to the United States which is a country I hate, end quote.|He wrote in another letter that he would, quote, never return to the United States which is a country I hate, end quote.
LJ042-0025|His idea that he was to find, quote, freedom, end quote, in the Soviet Union was to be rudely shattered.|His idea that he was to find, quote, freedom, end quote, in the Soviet Union was to be rudely shattered.
LJ042-0026|Whatever Oswald's reasons for going to the Soviet Union might have been, however, there can be little doubt that his desire to go was quite strong.|Whatever Oswald's reasons for going to the Soviet Union might have been, however, there can be little doubt that his desire to go was quite strong.
LJ042-0027|In addition to studying the Russian language while he was in the Marines,|In addition to studying the Russian language while he was in the Marines,
LJ042-0028|Oswald had managed to save enough money to cover the expenses of his forthcoming trip.|Oswald had managed to save enough money to cover the expenses of his forthcoming trip.
LJ042-0029|While there is no proof that he saved $1,500, as he claimed,|While there is no proof that he saved fifteen hundred dollars, as he claimed,
LJ042-0030|it would have taken considerable discipline to save whatever amount was required to finance his defection out of the salary of a low ranking enlisted man.|it would have taken considerable discipline to save whatever amount was required to finance his defection out of the salary of a low ranking enlisted man.
LJ042-0031|The extent of Oswald's desire to go to the Soviet Union|The extent of Oswald's desire to go to the Soviet Union
LJ042-0032|and of his initial commitment to that country can best be understood, however, in the context|and of his initial commitment to that country can best be understood, however, in the context
LJ042-0033|of his concomitant hatred of the United States, which was most clearly expressed in his November 26,|of his concomitant hatred of the United States, which was most clearly expressed in his November twenty-six,
LJ042-0035|and communist's would like to see the present capitalist government of the U.S. overthrown, end quote, Oswald stated|and communist's would like to see the present capitalist government of the U.S. overthrown, end quote, Oswald stated
LJ042-0036|that that government supported an economic system, quote, which exploits all its workers, end quote,|that that government supported an economic system, quote, which exploits all its workers, end quote,
LJ042-0037|and under which, quote, art, culture and the sprit of man are subjected to commercial enterprising,|and under which, quote, art, culture and the sprit of man are subjected to commercial enterprising,
LJ042-0038|and religion and education are used as a tool to suppress what would otherwise be a population questioning their government's unfair|and religion and education are used as a tool to suppress what would otherwise be a population questioning their government's unfair
LJ042-0039|economic system and plans for war, end quote.|economic system and plans for war, end quote.
LJ042-0040|He complained in his letter about segregation,|He complained in his letter about segregation,
LJ042-0041|unemployment, automation, and the use of military forces to suppress other populations.|unemployment, automation, and the use of military forces to suppress other populations.
LJ042-0042|Asking his brother why he supported the American Government and what ideals he put forward, Oswald wrote, quote,|Asking his brother why he supported the American Government and what ideals he put forward, Oswald wrote, quote,
LJ042-0043|Ask me and I will tell you I fight for communism.|Ask me and I will tell you I fight for communism.
LJ042-0044|I will not say your grandchildren will live under communism, look for yourself at history, look at a world map! America is a dicing country,|I will not say your grandchildren will live under communism, look for yourself at history, look at a world map! America is a dicing country,
LJ042-0045|I do not wish to be a part of it, nor do I ever again wish to be used as a tool in its military aggressions.|I do not wish to be a part of it, nor do I ever again wish to be used as a tool in its military aggressions.
LJ042-0046|This should answer your question, and also give you a glimpse of my way of thinking. So you speak of advantages. Do you think that is why I am here?|This should answer your question, and also give you a glimpse of my way of thinking. So you speak of advantages. Do you think that is why I am here?
LJ042-0047|For personal, material advantages? Happiness is not based on oneself, it does not consist of a small home, of taking and getting,|For personal, material advantages? Happiness is not based on oneself, it does not consist of a small home, of taking and getting,
LJ042-0048|Happiness is taking part in the struggle, where there is no borderline between one's own personal world, and the world in general.|Happiness is taking part in the struggle, where there is no borderline between one's own personal world, and the world in general.
LJ042-0049|I never believed I would find more material advantages at this stage of development in the Soviet Union than I might of had in the U.S.|I never believed I would find more material advantages at this stage of development in the Soviet Union than I might of had in the U.S.
LJ042-0050|I have been a pro-communist for years and yet I have never met a communist, instead I kept silent and observed,|I have been a pro-communist for years and yet I have never met a communist, instead I kept silent and observed,
LJ042-0051|and what I observed plus my Marxist learning brought me here to the Soviet Union.|and what I observed plus my Marxist learning brought me here to the Soviet Union.
LJ042-0052|I have always considered this country to be my own. End quote.|I have always considered this country to be my own. End quote.
LJ042-0053|Responding to Robert's statement that he had not "renounced" him,|Responding to Robert's statement that he had not "renounced" him,
LJ042-0054|Oswald told his brother, quote, on what terms I want this arrangement, end quote. He advised Robert that: 1.|Oswald told his brother, quote, on what terms I want this arrangement, end quote. He advised Robert that: one.
LJ042-0055|In the event of war I would kill any American who put a uniform on in defense of the American government -- any American.|In the event of war I would kill any American who put a uniform on in defense of the American government -- any American.
LJ042-0056|2. That in my own mind I have no attachments of any kind in the U.S.|two. That in my own mind I have no attachments of any kind in the U.S.
LJ042-0057|3. That I want to, and I shall, live a normal happy and peaceful life here in the Soviet Union for the rest of my life.|three. That I want to, and I shall, live a normal happy and peaceful life here in the Soviet Union for the rest of my life.
LJ042-0058|That my mother and you are (in spite of what the newspaper said) not objects of affection, but only examples of workers in the U.S.|That my mother and you are (in spite of what the newspaper said) not objects of affection, but only examples of workers in the U.S.
LJ042-0059|Despite this commitment to the Soviet Union|Despite this commitment to the Soviet Union
LJ042-0060|Oswald met disappointments there just as he had in the past. At the outset the Soviets told him that he could not remain.|Oswald met disappointments there just as he had in the past. At the outset the Soviets told him that he could not remain.
LJ042-0061|It seems that Oswald immediately attempted suicide -- a striking indication of how much he desired to remain in the Soviet Union.|It seems that Oswald immediately attempted suicide -- a striking indication of how much he desired to remain in the Soviet Union.
LJ042-0062|It shows how willing he was to act dramatically and decisively when he faced an emotional crisis|It shows how willing he was to act dramatically and decisively when he faced an emotional crisis
LJ042-0063|with few readily available alternatives at hand. He was shocked to find that the Soviet Union did not accept him with open arms.|with few readily available alternatives at hand. He was shocked to find that the Soviet Union did not accept him with open arms.
LJ042-0064|The entry in his self-styled, quote, Historic Diary, end quote, for October 21, 1959, reports, quote,|The entry in his self-styled, quote, Historic Diary, end quote, for October twenty-one, nineteen fifty-nine, reports, quote,
LJ042-0065|I am shocked! My dreams! I have waited for 2 years to be accepted.|I am shocked! My dreams! I have waited for two years to be accepted.
LJ042-0066|My fondest dreams are shattered because of a petty official. I decide to end it.|My fondest dreams are shattered because of a petty official. I decide to end it.
LJ042-0067|Soak fist in cold water to numb the pain. Then slash my left wrist. Than plunge wrist into bathtub of hot water.|Soak fist in cold water to numb the pain. Then slash my left wrist. Than plunge wrist into bathtub of hot water.
LJ042-0068|Somewhere, a violin plays, as I watch my life whirl away.|Somewhere, a violin plays, as I watch my life whirl away.
LJ042-0069|I think to myself "How easy to Die" and "A Sweet Death, (to violins), end quote.|I think to myself "How easy to Die" and "A Sweet Death, (to violins), end quote.
LJ042-0071|He was taken to a hospital in Moscow where he was kept until October 28, 1959.|He was taken to a hospital in Moscow where he was kept until October twenty-eight, nineteen fifty-nine.
LJ042-0072|Still intent, however, on staying in the Soviet Union,|Still intent, however, on staying in the Soviet Union,
LJ042-0073|Oswald went on October 31, to the American Embassy to renounce his U.S. citizenship.|Oswald went on October thirty-one, to the American Embassy to renounce his U.S. citizenship.
LJ042-0074|Mr. Richard E. Snyder, then Second Secretary and senior consular official at the Embassy,|Mr. Richard E. Snyder, then Second Secretary and senior consular official at the Embassy,
LJ042-0075|testified that Oswald was extremely sure of himself and seemed, quote, to know what his mission was.|testified that Oswald was extremely sure of himself and seemed, quote, to know what his mission was.
LJ042-0076|He took charge, in a sense, of the conversation right from the beginning, end quote. He presented the following signed note:|He took charge, in a sense, of the conversation right from the beginning, end quote. He presented the following signed note:
LJ042-0077|Quote, I Lee Harvey Oswald do hereby request that my present citizenship in the United States of America, be revoked.|Quote, I Lee Harvey Oswald do hereby request that my present citizenship in the United States of America, be revoked.
LJ042-0078|I have entered the Soviet Union for the express purpose of applying for citizenship in the Soviet Union, through the means of naturalization.|I have entered the Soviet Union for the express purpose of applying for citizenship in the Soviet Union, through the means of naturalization.
LJ042-0079|My request for citizenship is now pending before the Supreme Soviet of the U.S.S.R. I take these steps for political reasons.|My request for citizenship is now pending before the Supreme Soviet of the U.S.S.R. I take these steps for political reasons.
LJ042-0080|My request for the revoking of my American citizenship|My request for the revoking of my American citizenship
LJ042-0081|is made only after the longest and most serious considerations. I affirm that my allegiance is to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.|is made only after the longest and most serious considerations. I affirm that my allegiance is to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.
LJ042-0082|End quote. As his, quote, principal reason, end quote, for renouncing his citizenship|End quote. As his, quote, principal reason, end quote, for renouncing his citizenship
LJ042-0083|Oswald stated, quote, I am a Marxist, end quote. He also alluded to hardships endured by his mother as a worker,|Oswald stated, quote, I am a Marxist, end quote. He also alluded to hardships endured by his mother as a worker,
LJ042-0084|referring to them as experiences that he did not intend to have himself, even though he stated that he had never held a civilian job.|referring to them as experiences that he did not intend to have himself, even though he stated that he had never held a civilian job.
LJ042-0085|He said that his Marine service in Okinawa and elsewhere had given him, quote, a chance to observe American imperialism, end quote.|He said that his Marine service in Okinawa and elsewhere had given him, quote, a chance to observe American imperialism, end quote.
LJ042-0086|but he also displayed some sensitivity at not having reached a higher rank in the Marine Corps.|but he also displayed some sensitivity at not having reached a higher rank in the Marine Corps.
LJ042-0087|He stated that he had volunteered to give Soviet officials any information that he had concerning Marine Corps operations, and intimated|He stated that he had volunteered to give Soviet officials any information that he had concerning Marine Corps operations, and intimated
LJ042-0088|that he might know something of special interest. Oswald's "Historic Diary" describes the event in part as follows, quote,|that he might know something of special interest. Oswald's "Historic Diary" describes the event in part as follows, quote,
LJ042-0089|I leave Embassy, elated at this showdown, returning to my hotel I feel now my energies are not spent in vain.|I leave Embassy, elated at this showdown, returning to my hotel I feel now my energies are not spent in vain.
LJ042-0090|I'm sure Russians will accept me after this sign of my faith in them, end quote.|I'm sure Russians will accept me after this sign of my faith in them, end quote.
LJ042-0091|The Soviet authorities finally permitted Oswald to remain in their country.|The Soviet authorities finally permitted Oswald to remain in their country.
LJ042-0092|No evidence has been found that they used him for any particular propaganda or other political or informational purposes.|No evidence has been found that they used him for any particular propaganda or other political or informational purposes.
LJ042-0093|They sent him to Minsk to work in a radio and television factory as a metal worker.|They sent him to Minsk to work in a radio and television factory as a metal worker.
LJ042-0094|The Soviet authorities denied Oswald permission|The Soviet authorities denied Oswald permission
LJ042-0095|to attend a university in Moscow, but they gave him a monthly allowance of 700 rubles a month|to attend a university in Moscow, but they gave him a monthly allowance of seven hundred rubles a month
LJ042-0096|(old exchange rate) in addition to his factory salary of approximately equal amount|(old exchange rate) in addition to his factory salary of approximately equal amount
LJ042-0097|and considerably better living quarters than those accorded to Soviet citizens of equal age and station.|and considerably better living quarters than those accorded to Soviet citizens of equal age and station.
LJ042-0098|The subsidy, apparently similar to those sometimes given to foreigners allowed to remain in the Soviet Union, together with his salary,|The subsidy, apparently similar to those sometimes given to foreigners allowed to remain in the Soviet Union, together with his salary,
LJ042-0099|gave Oswald an income which he said approximated that of the director of the factory in which he worked.|gave Oswald an income which he said approximated that of the director of the factory in which he worked.
LJ042-0100|Even though he received more money and better living quarters than other Russians doing similar work,|Even though he received more money and better living quarters than other Russians doing similar work,
LJ042-0101|he envied his wife's uncle, a colonel in the MVD, because of the larger apartment in which he lived.|he envied his wife's uncle, a colonel in the MVD, because of the larger apartment in which he lived.
LJ042-0102|Reminiscent of his attitude toward his superiors in the Marine Corps,|Reminiscent of his attitude toward his superiors in the Marine Corps,
LJ042-0103|Oswald apparently resented the exercise of authority over him and the better treatment afforded to Communist Party officials.|Oswald apparently resented the exercise of authority over him and the better treatment afforded to Communist Party officials.
LJ042-0104|After he returned to the United States|After he returned to the United States
LJ042-0105|he took the position that the Communist Party officials in the Soviet Union were opportunists who were betraying their positions for personal gain.|he took the position that the Communist Party officials in the Soviet Union were opportunists who were betraying their positions for personal gain.
LJ042-0106|He is reported to have expressed the conclusion that they had, quote, fat stinking politicians over there just like we have over here, end quote.|He is reported to have expressed the conclusion that they had, quote, fat stinking politicians over there just like we have over here, end quote.
LJ042-0107|Oswald apparently continued to have personal difficulties while he was in Minsk.|Oswald apparently continued to have personal difficulties while he was in Minsk.
LJ042-0108|Although Marina Oswald told the Commission that her husband had good personal relationships in the Soviet Union, Katherine Ford,|Although Marina Oswald told the Commission that her husband had good personal relationships in the Soviet Union, Katherine Ford,
LJ042-0109|one of the members of the Russian community in Dallas with which the Oswalds became acquainted upon their arrival in the United States,|one of the members of the Russian community in Dallas with which the Oswalds became acquainted upon their arrival in the United States,
LJ042-0110|stated that Mrs. Oswald told her everybody in Russia, quote, hated him, end quote.|stated that Mrs. Oswald told her everybody in Russia, quote, hated him, end quote.
LJ042-0111|Jeanne De Mohrenschildt, another member of that group,|Jeanne De Mohrenschildt, another member of that group,
LJ042-0112|said that Oswald told her that he had returned because, quote, I didn't find what I was looking for, end quote.|said that Oswald told her that he had returned because, quote, I didn't find what I was looking for, end quote.
LJ042-0113|George De Mohrenschildt thought that Oswald must have become disgusted with life in the Soviet Union as the novelty|George De Mohrenschildt thought that Oswald must have become disgusted with life in the Soviet Union as the novelty
LJ042-0114|of the presence of an American wore off and he began to be less the center of attention.|of the presence of an American wore off and he began to be less the center of attention.
LJ042-0115|The best description of Oswald's state of mind, however, is set forth in his own "Historic Diary."|The best description of Oswald's state of mind, however, is set forth in his own "Historic Diary."
LJ042-0116|Under the entry for May 1, 1960,|Under the entry for May one, nineteen sixty,
LJ042-0117|he noted that one of his acquaintances, quote, relates many things I do not know about the U.S.S.R.|he noted that one of his acquaintances, quote, relates many things I do not know about the U.S.S.R.
LJ042-0118|I begin to feel uneasy inside, its true! End quote.|I begin to feel uneasy inside, its true! End quote.
LJ042-0119|Under the entry for August to September of that year he wrote, quote,|Under the entry for August to September of that year he wrote, quote,
LJ042-0120|As my Russian improves I become increasingly conscious of just what sort of a society I live in.|As my Russian improves I become increasingly conscious of just what sort of a society I live in.
LJ042-0121|Mass gymnastics, compulsory afterwork meeting, usually political information meeting.|Mass gymnastics, compulsory afterwork meeting, usually political information meeting.
LJ042-0122|Compulsory attendance at lectures and the sending of the entire shop collective (except me) to pick potatoes on a Sunday, at a state collective farm|Compulsory attendance at lectures and the sending of the entire shop collective (except me) to pick potatoes on a Sunday, at a state collective farm
LJ042-0123|A "patriotic duty" to bring in the harvest. The opinions of the workers (unvoiced) are that it's a great pain in the neck:|A "patriotic duty" to bring in the harvest. The opinions of the workers (unvoiced) are that it's a great pain in the neck:
LJ042-0124|they don't seem to be especially enthusiastic about any of the "collective" duties, a natural feeling.|they don't seem to be especially enthusiastic about any of the "collective" duties, a natural feeling.
LJ042-0125|I am increasingly aware of the presence, in all thing, of Lebizen, shop party secretary, fat, fortyish, and jovial on the outside.|I am increasingly aware of the presence, in all thing, of Lebizen, shop party secretary, fat, fortyish, and jovial on the outside.
LJ042-0126|He is a no-nonsense party regular.|He is a no-nonsense party regular.
LJ042-0127|Finally, the entry of January 4 to 31 of 1961, quote,|Finally, the entry of January four to thirty-one of nineteen sixty-one, quote,
LJ042-0128|I am stating to reconsider my desire about staying. The work is drab. The money I get has nowhere to be spent.|I am stating to reconsider my desire about staying. The work is drab. The money I get has nowhere to be spent.
LJ042-0129|No night clubs or bowling alleys, no places of recreation except the trade union dances. I have had enough.|No night clubs or bowling alleys, no places of recreation except the trade union dances. I have had enough.
LJ042-0130|Shortly thereafter, less than 18 months after his defection, about 6 weeks before he met Marina Prusakova,|Shortly thereafter, less than eighteen months after his defection, about six weeks before he met Marina Prusakova,
LJ042-0131|Oswald opened negotiations with the U.S. Embassy in Moscow looking toward his return to the United States.|Oswald opened negotiations with the U.S. Embassy in Moscow looking toward his return to the United States.
LJ042-0132|Return to the United States. In view of the intensity of his earlier commitment to the Soviet Union,|Return to the United States. In view of the intensity of his earlier commitment to the Soviet Union,
LJ042-0133|a great change must have occurred in Oswald's thinking to induce him to return to the United States.|a great change must have occurred in Oswald's thinking to induce him to return to the United States.
LJ042-0134|The psychological effects of that change must have been highly unsettling. It should be remembered|The psychological effects of that change must have been highly unsettling. It should be remembered
LJ042-0135|that he was not yet 20 years old when he went to the Soviet Union with such high hopes and not quite 23 when he returned bitterly disappointed.|that he was not yet twenty years old when he went to the Soviet Union with such high hopes and not quite twenty-three when he returned bitterly disappointed.
LJ042-0136|His attempt to renounce his citizenship had been an open expression of hostility against the United States and a profound rejection of his early life.|His attempt to renounce his citizenship had been an open expression of hostility against the United States and a profound rejection of his early life.
LJ042-0137|The dramatic break with society in America now had to be undone.|The dramatic break with society in America now had to be undone.
LJ042-0138|His return to the United States publicly testified to the utter failure of what had been the most important act of his life.|His return to the United States publicly testified to the utter failure of what had been the most important act of his life.
LJ042-0139|Marina Oswald confirmed the fact that her husband was experiencing psychological difficulties at the time of his return.|Marina Oswald confirmed the fact that her husband was experiencing psychological difficulties at the time of his return.
LJ042-0140|She said that, quote, immediately after coming to the United States, Lee changed. I did not know him as such a man in Russia, end quote.|She said that, quote, immediately after coming to the United States, Lee changed. I did not know him as such a man in Russia, end quote.
LJ042-0141|She added that while he helped her as he had done before, he became more of a recluse, that, quote,|She added that while he helped her as he had done before, he became more of a recluse, that, quote,
LJ042-0142|He was very irritable, sometimes for a trifle, end quote, and that, quote, Lee was very unrestrained and very explosive, end quote.|He was very irritable, sometimes for a trifle, end quote, and that, quote, Lee was very unrestrained and very explosive, end quote.
LJ042-0143|during the period from November 19, 1962 to March of 1963.|during the period from November nineteen, nineteen sixty-two to March of nineteen sixty-three.
LJ042-0144|After the assassination she wrote that, quote,|After the assassination she wrote that, quote,
LJ042-0145|In general, our family life began to deteriorate after we arrived in America.|In general, our family life began to deteriorate after we arrived in America.
LJ042-0146|Lee was always hot-tempered, and now this trait of character more and more prevented us from living together in harmony.|Lee was always hot-tempered, and now this trait of character more and more prevented us from living together in harmony.
LJ042-0147|Lee became very irritable, and sometimes some completely trivial thing would drive him into a rage.|Lee became very irritable, and sometimes some completely trivial thing would drive him into a rage.
LJ042-0148|I myself do not have a particularly quiet disposition,|I myself do not have a particularly quiet disposition,
LJ042-0149|but I had to change my character a great deal in order to maintain a more or less peaceful family life. End quote.|but I had to change my character a great deal in order to maintain a more or less peaceful family life. End quote.
LJ042-0150|Marina Oswald's judgment of her husband's state of mind may be substantiated by comparing material which he wrote in the Soviet Union|Marina Oswald's judgment of her husband's state of mind may be substantiated by comparing material which he wrote in the Soviet Union
LJ042-0151|with what he wrote while on the way back to the United States and after his return.|with what he wrote while on the way back to the United States and after his return.
LJ042-0152|While in the Soviet Union he wrote his longest and clearest piece of work, "The Collective."|While in the Soviet Union he wrote his longest and clearest piece of work, "The Collective."
LJ042-0153|This was a fairly coherent description of life in that country, basically centered around the radio and television factory in which he worked.|This was a fairly coherent description of life in that country, basically centered around the radio and television factory in which he worked.
LJ042-0154|While it was apparently intended for publication in the United States, and is in many respects critical of certain aspects of life in the Soviet Union,|While it was apparently intended for publication in the United States, and is in many respects critical of certain aspects of life in the Soviet Union,
LJ042-0155|it appears to be the work of a fairly well organized person.|it appears to be the work of a fairly well organized person.
LJ042-0156|Oswald prefaced his manuscript with a short autobiographical sketch which reads in part as follows, quote,|Oswald prefaced his manuscript with a short autobiographical sketch which reads in part as follows, quote,
LJ042-0157|Lee Harvey Oswald was born in October 1939 in New Orleans, Louisiana, the son of a Insurance Salesmen whose early death|Lee Harvey Oswald was born in October nineteen thirty-nine in New Orleans, Louisiana, the son of a Insurance Salesmen whose early death
LJ042-0158|left a far mean streak of independence brought on by neglect.|left a far mean streak of independence brought on by neglect.
LJ042-0159|entering the US Marine corp at 17, this streak of independence was strengthened by exotic journeys to Japan,|entering the US Marine corp at seventeen, this streak of independence was strengthened by exotic journeys to Japan,
LJ042-0160|the Philippines, and the scores of odd islands in the Pacific.|the Philippines, and the scores of odd islands in the Pacific.
LJ042-0162|Full of optimism and hope, he stood in Red Square in the Fall of 1959, vowing to see his chosen course through,|Full of optimism and hope, he stood in Red Square in the Fall of nineteen fifty-nine, vowing to see his chosen course through,
LJ042-0163|After, however, 2 years and a lot of growing up, I decided to return to the USA.|After, however, two years and a lot of growing up, I decided to return to the USA.
LJ042-0164|"The Collective" contrasts sharply with material which Oswald seems to have written after he left the Soviet Union.|"The Collective" contrasts sharply with material which Oswald seems to have written after he left the Soviet Union.
LJ042-0165|which appears to be more an expression of his own psychological condition than of a reasoned analysis.|which appears to be more an expression of his own psychological condition than of a reasoned analysis.
LJ042-0166|The latter material expresses great hostility to both communism and capitalism. He wrote, that to a person knowing both of those systems, quote,|The latter material expresses great hostility to both communism and capitalism. He wrote, that to a person knowing both of those systems, quote,
LJ042-0167|There can be no mediation between those systems as they exist today, and that person|There can be no mediation between those systems as they exist today, and that person
LJ042-0168|He must be opposed to their basic foundations and representatives, end quote.|He must be opposed to their basic foundations and representatives, end quote.
LJ042-0169|And yet, it is immature to take the sort of attitude which says, quote, a curse on both your houses! End quote.|And yet, it is immature to take the sort of attitude which says, quote, a curse on both your houses! End quote.
LJ042-0170|There are two great representatives of power in the world,|There are two great representatives of power in the world,
LJ042-0171|simply expressed, the left and right, and their offspring factions and concerns. Any practical attempt at one alternative|simply expressed, the left and right, and their offspring factions and concerns. Any practical attempt at one alternative
LJ042-0172|must have as its nucleus the traditional ideological best of both systems, and yet be utterly opposed to both systems.|must have as its nucleus the traditional ideological best of both systems, and yet be utterly opposed to both systems.
LJ042-0173|Such an alternative was to be opposed both to capitalism and communism because, quote,|Such an alternative was to be opposed both to capitalism and communism because, quote,
LJ042-0174|No man, having known, having lived, under the Russian Communist and American capitalist system,|No man, having known, having lived, under the Russian Communist and American capitalist system,
LJ042-0175|could possibly make a choice between them, there is no choice,|could possibly make a choice between them, there is no choice,
LJ042-0176|One offers oppression, the other poverty. Both offer imperialistic injustice, tinted with two brands of slavery, end quote.|One offers oppression, the other poverty. Both offer imperialistic injustice, tinted with two brands of slavery, end quote.
LJ042-0177|Oswald actually did attempt to formulate such an alternative which he planned to, quote, put forward, end quote, himself.|Oswald actually did attempt to formulate such an alternative which he planned to, quote, put forward, end quote, himself.
LJ042-0178|He thought the new alternative would have its best chance to be accepted after, quote, conflict between the two world systems leaves the world country|He thought the new alternative would have its best chance to be accepted after, quote, conflict between the two world systems leaves the world country
LJ042-0179|without defense or foundation of government, end quote,|without defense or foundation of government, end quote,
LJ042-0180|after which the survivors would, quote, seek an alternative opposed to those systems which have brought them misery, end quote.|after which the survivors would, quote, seek an alternative opposed to those systems which have brought them misery, end quote.
LJ042-0181|Oswald realized that, quote, their thinking and education will be steeped in the traditions of those systems|Oswald realized that, quote, their thinking and education will be steeped in the traditions of those systems
LJ042-0182|and they would never accept a new order complete beyond their understanding, end quote.|and they would never accept a new order complete beyond their understanding, end quote.
LJ042-0183|As a result he thought it would be, quote, necessary to oppose the old systems but at the same time support their cherished traditions, end quote.|As a result he thought it would be, quote, necessary to oppose the old systems but at the same time support their cherished traditions, end quote.
LJ042-0184|Expanding on his ideas on how his alternative to communism and capitalism might be introduced, he wrote of a, quote, readily foreseeable|Expanding on his ideas on how his alternative to communism and capitalism might be introduced, he wrote of a, quote, readily foreseeable
LJ042-0185|economic, political, or military crisis, internal or external,|economic, political, or military crisis, internal or external,
LJ042-0186|which will bring about the final destruction of the capitalist system, and indicated that|which will bring about the final destruction of the capitalist system, and indicated that
LJ042-0187|preparation in a special party could safeguard an independent course of action after the debacle, end quote.|preparation in a special party could safeguard an independent course of action after the debacle, end quote.
LJ042-0188|which would achieve the goal, which was, quote, the emplacement of a separate, democratic, pure communist society|which would achieve the goal, which was, quote, the emplacement of a separate, democratic, pure communist society
LJ042-0189|but one with union communes,|but one with union communes,
LJ042-0190|democratic socializing of production, and without regard to the twisting apart of Marxism Marxist Communism by other powers.|democratic socializing of production, and without regard to the twisting apart of Marxism Marxist Communism by other powers.
LJ042-0191|While, quote, resourcefulness and patient working towards the aforesaid goals|While, quote, resourcefulness and patient working towards the aforesaid goals
LJ042-0192|are preferred rather than loud and useless manifestations of protest, end quote, Oswald went on to note, quote,|are preferred rather than loud and useless manifestations of protest, end quote, Oswald went on to note, quote,
LJ042-0193|But these preferred tactics now may prove to be too limited in the near future,|But these preferred tactics now may prove to be too limited in the near future,
LJ042-0194|they should not be confused with slowness, indecision or fear. Only the intellectually fearless could even be remotely attracted to our doctrine,|they should not be confused with slowness, indecision or fear. Only the intellectually fearless could even be remotely attracted to our doctrine,
LJ042-0195|and yet this doctrine requires the utmost, utmost restraint, a state of being in itself majestic in power, end quote.|and yet this doctrine requires the utmost, utmost restraint, a state of being in itself majestic in power, end quote.
LJ042-0196|Oswald's decided rejection of both capitalism and communism|Oswald's decided rejection of both capitalism and communism
LJ042-0197|seemed to place him in a situation in which he could not live with satisfaction either in the United States or in the Soviet Union.|seemed to place him in a situation in which he could not live with satisfaction either in the United States or in the Soviet Union.
LJ042-0198|The discussion above has already set forth examples of his expression of hatred for the United States.|The discussion above has already set forth examples of his expression of hatred for the United States.
LJ042-0199|He also expressed hatred of the Soviet Union and of the Communist Party, U.S.A.,|He also expressed hatred of the Soviet Union and of the Communist Party, U.S.A.,
LJ042-0200|even though he later referred to the latter as, quote, trusted long time fighters for progress, end quote.|even though he later referred to the latter as, quote, trusted long time fighters for progress, end quote.
LJ042-0201|He wrote, quote, The Communist Party of the United States has betrayed itself!|He wrote, quote, The Communist Party of the United States has betrayed itself!
LJ042-0202|It has turned itself into the traditional lever of a foreign power to overthrow the government of the United States;|It has turned itself into the traditional lever of a foreign power to overthrow the government of the United States;
LJ042-0203|not in the name of freedom or high ideals,|not in the name of freedom or high ideals,
LJ042-0204|but in servile conformity to the wishes of the Soviet Union and in anticipation of Soviet Russia's complete domination of the American continent.|but in servile conformity to the wishes of the Soviet Union and in anticipation of Soviet Russia's complete domination of the American continent.
LJ042-0205|There can be no sympathy for those who have turned the idea of communism into a vile curse to Western man.|There can be no sympathy for those who have turned the idea of communism into a vile curse to Western man.
LJ042-0206|The Soviets have committed crimes unsurpassed even by their early day capitalist counterparts, the imprisonment of their own peoples,|The Soviets have committed crimes unsurpassed even by their early day capitalist counterparts, the imprisonment of their own peoples,
LJ042-0207|with the mass extermination so typical of Stalin, and the individual suppression and regimentation under Khrushchev.|with the mass extermination so typical of Stalin, and the individual suppression and regimentation under Khrushchev.
LJ042-0208|The deportations, the purposeful curtailment of diet in the consumer slighted population of Russia,|The deportations, the purposeful curtailment of diet in the consumer slighted population of Russia,
LJ042-0209|the murder of history, the prostitution of art and culture, end quote.|the murder of history, the prostitution of art and culture, end quote.
LJ042-0210|A suggestion that Oswald hated more than just capitalism and communism|A suggestion that Oswald hated more than just capitalism and communism
LJ042-0211|is provided by the following, which was apparently written either on the ship coming back, or after his return from the Soviet Union, quote,|is provided by the following, which was apparently written either on the ship coming back, or after his return from the Soviet Union, quote,
LJ042-0212|I have often wondered why it is that the communist, anarchist capitalist, and even the fascist and anarchist elements in American,|I have often wondered why it is that the communist, anarchist capitalist, and even the fascist and anarchist elements in American,
LJ042-0213|always profess patriotism toward the land and the people, if not the government; although their ideals movements must surely lead|always profess patriotism toward the land and the people, if not the government; although their ideals movements must surely lead
LJ042-0214|to the bitter destruction of all and everything. I am quite sure these people must hate not only the government|to the bitter destruction of all and everything. I am quite sure these people must hate not only the government
LJ042-0215|but our, the people, culture, traditions, heritage, and very people itself, and yet|but our, the people, culture, traditions, heritage, and very people itself, and yet
LJ042-0216|they stand up and piously pronounce themselves patriots, displaying their war medals that they gained in conflicts long past between themselves.|they stand up and piously pronounce themselves patriots, displaying their war medals that they gained in conflicts long past between themselves.
LJ042-0217|I wonder what would happen it somebody was to stand up and say he was utterly opposed not only to the governments, but to the people,|I wonder what would happen it somebody was to stand up and say he was utterly opposed not only to the governments, but to the people,
LJ042-0218|to the entire land and complete foundations of his society, end quote.|to the entire land and complete foundations of his society, end quote.
LJ042-0219|Oswald demonstrated his thinking in connection with his return to the United States by preparing two sets of identical questions of the type which he might have thought|Oswald demonstrated his thinking in connection with his return to the United States by preparing two sets of identical questions of the type which he might have thought
LJ042-0220|he would be asked at a press conference when he returned.|he would be asked at a press conference when he returned.
LJ042-0221|With either great ambivalence, or cold calculation he prepared completely different answers to the same questions.|With either great ambivalence, or cold calculation he prepared completely different answers to the same questions.
LJ042-0222|Judged by his other statements and writings, however, he appears to have indicated his true feelings in the set of answers first presented|Judged by his other statements and writings, however, he appears to have indicated his true feelings in the set of answers first presented
LJ042-0223|and to have stated in the second what he thought would be least harmful to him as he resumed life in the United States.|and to have stated in the second what he thought would be least harmful to him as he resumed life in the United States.
LJ042-0224|For example, in response to his questions about his decision to go to the Soviet Union, his first draft answered, quote,|For example, in response to his questions about his decision to go to the Soviet Union, his first draft answered, quote,
LJ042-0225|as a mark of discuss and protest against American political policies in foreign countries, my personal sign of discontent|as a mark of discuss and protest against American political policies in foreign countries, my personal sign of discontent
LJ042-0226|and horror at the misguided line of reasoning of the United States Government, end quote.|and horror at the misguided line of reasoning of the United States Government, end quote.
LJ042-0227|His second answer was that he, quote, went as a citizen of the U.S. (as a tourist) residing in a foreign country which I have a perfect right to do.|His second answer was that he, quote, went as a citizen of the U.S. (as a tourist) residing in a foreign country which I have a perfect right to do.
LJ042-0228|I went there to see the land, the people and how their system works, end quote.|I went there to see the land, the people and how their system works, end quote.
LJ042-0229|To the question of, quote, Are you a Communist? End quote, he first answered "Yes,"|To the question of, quote, Are you a Communist? End quote, he first answered "Yes,"
LJ042-0230|basically, although I hate the USSR and socialist system I still think marxism can work under different circumstances, end quote.|basically, although I hate the USSR and socialist system I still think marxism can work under different circumstances, end quote.
LJ042-0231|His second answer to this question was, quote, No of course not,|His second answer to this question was, quote, No of course not,
LJ042-0232|I have never even know a communist, outside of the ones in the USSR but you can't help that, end quote.|I have never even know a communist, outside of the ones in the USSR but you can't help that, end quote.
LJ042-0233|His first set of questions and answers indicated his belief that there were no outstanding differences between the Soviet Union and the United States,|His first set of questions and answers indicated his belief that there were no outstanding differences between the Soviet Union and the United States,
LJ042-0234|quote, except in the US, the living standard is a little higher.|quote, except in the US, the living standard is a little higher.
LJ042-0235|Freedoms are about the same. Medical aid and the educational system in the USSR is better than in the USA, end quote.|Freedoms are about the same. Medical aid and the educational system in the USSR is better than in the USA, end quote.
LJ042-0236|In the second simulated transcript which ended with the statement, quote, Newspapers thank you, sir. You are a real patriot! End quote.|In the second simulated transcript which ended with the statement, quote, Newspapers thank you, sir. You are a real patriot! End quote.
LJ042-0237|He apparently concluded that the United States offered, quote,|He apparently concluded that the United States offered, quote,
LJ042-0238|freedom of speech, travel outspoken opposition to unpopular policies, freedom to believe in god, end quote, while the Soviet Union did not.|freedom of speech, travel outspoken opposition to unpopular policies, freedom to believe in god, end quote, while the Soviet Union did not.
LJ042-0239|Despite the hatred that Oswald expressed toward the Soviet Union after his residence there,|Despite the hatred that Oswald expressed toward the Soviet Union after his residence there,
LJ042-0240|he continued to be interested in that country after he returned to the United States.|he continued to be interested in that country after he returned to the United States.
LJ042-0241|Soon after his arrival he wrote to the Soviet Embassy in Washington|Soon after his arrival he wrote to the Soviet Embassy in Washington
LJ042-0242|requesting information on how to subscribe to Russian newspapers and magazines and asked for, quote,|requesting information on how to subscribe to Russian newspapers and magazines and asked for, quote,
LJ042-0244|Oswald subsequently did subscribe to several Soviet journals.|Oswald subsequently did subscribe to several Soviet journals.
LJ042-0245|While Marina Oswald tried to obtain permission to return to the Soviet Union, she testified that she did so at her husband's insistence.|While Marina Oswald tried to obtain permission to return to the Soviet Union, she testified that she did so at her husband's insistence.
LJ042-0246|In July of 1963, Oswald also requested the Soviet Union to provide a visa for his return to that country.|In July of nineteen sixty-three, Oswald also requested the Soviet Union to provide a visa for his return to that country.
LJ042-0247|In August of 1963, he gave the New Orleans police as a reason for refusing to permit his family to learn English,|In August of nineteen sixty-three, he gave the New Orleans police as a reason for refusing to permit his family to learn English,
LJ042-0248|that, quote, he hated America and he did not want them to become Americanized, and that his plans were to go back to Russia, end quote.|that, quote, he hated America and he did not want them to become Americanized, and that his plans were to go back to Russia, end quote.
LJ042-0249|Even though his primary purpose probably was to get to Cuba,|Even though his primary purpose probably was to get to Cuba,
LJ042-0250|He sought an immediate grant of visa on his trip to Mexico City in late September of 1963.|He sought an immediate grant of visa on his trip to Mexico City in late September of nineteen sixty-three.
LJ042-0251|He also inquired about visas for himself and his wife|He also inquired about visas for himself and his wife
LJ043-0001|Report of the President's Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy.|Report of the President's Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy.
LJ043-0002|The Warren Commission Report. By The President's Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy. Chapter 7. Lee Harvey Oswald:|The Warren Commission Report. By The President's Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy. Chapter seven. Lee Harvey Oswald:
LJ043-0003|Background and Possible Motives, Part 4.|Background and Possible Motives, Part four.
LJ043-0004|Personal Relations|Personal Relations
LJ043-0005|Apart from his relatives, Oswald had no friends or close associates in Texas when he returned there in June of 1962,|Apart from his relatives, Oswald had no friends or close associates in Texas when he returned there in June of nineteen sixty-two,
LJ043-0006|and he did not establish any close friendships or associations, although it appears that he came to respect George De Mohrenschildt.|and he did not establish any close friendships or associations, although it appears that he came to respect George De Mohrenschildt.
LJ043-0007|Somewhat of a nonconformist,|Somewhat of a nonconformist,
LJ043-0008|De Mohrenschildt was a peripheral member of the so-called Russian community, with which Oswald made contact through Mr. Peter Gregory,|De Mohrenschildt was a peripheral member of the so-called Russian community, with which Oswald made contact through Mr. Peter Gregory,
LJ043-0009|a Russian-speaking petroleum engineer whom Oswald met as a result of his contact with the Texas Employment Commission office in Fort Worth.|a Russian-speaking petroleum engineer whom Oswald met as a result of his contact with the Texas Employment Commission office in Fort Worth.
LJ043-0010|Some of the members of that group saw a good deal of the Oswalds through the fall of 1963,|Some of the members of that group saw a good deal of the Oswalds through the fall of nineteen sixty-three,
LJ043-0011|and attempted to help Mrs. Oswald particularly, in various ways. In general, Oswald did not like the members of the Russian community.|and attempted to help Mrs. Oswald particularly, in various ways. In general, Oswald did not like the members of the Russian community.
LJ043-0012|In fact, his relations with some of them, particularly George Bouhe, became quite hostile.|In fact, his relations with some of them, particularly George Bouhe, became quite hostile.
LJ043-0013|Part of the problem resulted from the fact that, as Jeanne De Mohrenschildt testified,|Part of the problem resulted from the fact that, as Jeanne De Mohrenschildt testified,
LJ043-0014|Oswald was, quote, very, very disagreeable and disappointed, end quote,|Oswald was, quote, very, very disagreeable and disappointed, end quote,
LJ043-0015|He also expressed considerable resentment at the help given to his wife by her Russian-American friends.|He also expressed considerable resentment at the help given to his wife by her Russian-American friends.
LJ043-0016|Jeanne De Mohrenschildt said, quote,|Jeanne De Mohrenschildt said, quote,
LJ043-0017|Marina had a hundred dresses given to her, and he objected to that lavish help, because Marina was throwing it into his face.|Marina had a hundred dresses given to her, and he objected to that lavish help, because Marina was throwing it into his face.
LJ043-0018|He was offensive with the people. And I can understand why, because that hurt him.|He was offensive with the people. And I can understand why, because that hurt him.
LJ043-0019|He could never give her what the people were showering on her no matter how hard he worked -- and he worked very hard, end quote.|He could never give her what the people were showering on her no matter how hard he worked -- and he worked very hard, end quote.
LJ043-0020|The relations between Oswald and his wife became such that Bouhe wanted to "liberate" her from Oswald.|The relations between Oswald and his wife became such that Bouhe wanted to "liberate" her from Oswald.
LJ043-0021|While the exact sequence of events is not clear because of conflicting testimony,|While the exact sequence of events is not clear because of conflicting testimony,
LJ043-0022|it appears that De Mohrenschildt and his wife actually went to Oswald's apartment early in November of 1962|it appears that De Mohrenschildt and his wife actually went to Oswald's apartment early in November of nineteen sixty-two
LJ043-0023|and helped to move the personal effects of Marina Oswald and the baby.|and helped to move the personal effects of Marina Oswald and the baby.
LJ043-0024|Even though it appears that they may have left Oswald a few days before, it seems that he resisted the move as best he could.|Even though it appears that they may have left Oswald a few days before, it seems that he resisted the move as best he could.
LJ043-0025|He even threatened to tear up his wife's dresses and break all the baby things. According to De Mohrenschildt,|He even threatened to tear up his wife's dresses and break all the baby things. According to De Mohrenschildt,
LJ043-0026|Oswald submitted to the inevitable, presumably because he was, quote, small, you know, and he was rather a puny individual, end quote,|Oswald submitted to the inevitable, presumably because he was, quote, small, you know, and he was rather a puny individual, end quote,
LJ043-0027|De Mohrenschildt said that the whole affair made him nervous since he was, quote, interfering in other people's affairs, after all, end quote.|De Mohrenschildt said that the whole affair made him nervous since he was, quote, interfering in other people's affairs, after all, end quote.
LJ043-0028|Oswald attempted to get his wife to come back and, over Bouhe's protest, De Mohrenschildt finally told him where she was.|Oswald attempted to get his wife to come back and, over Bouhe's protest, De Mohrenschildt finally told him where she was.
LJ043-0029|De Mohrenschildt admitted that, quote,|De Mohrenschildt admitted that, quote,
LJ043-0030|If somebody did that to me, a lousy trick like that, to take my wife away, and all the furniture, I would be mad as hell, too.|If somebody did that to me, a lousy trick like that, to take my wife away, and all the furniture, I would be mad as hell, too.
LJ043-0031|I am surprised that he didn't do something worse, end quote.|I am surprised that he didn't do something worse, end quote.
LJ043-0032|After about a 2-week separation, Marina Oswald returned to her husband.|After about a two-week separation, Marina Oswald returned to her husband.
LJ043-0033|Bouhe thoroughly disapproved of this and as a result almost all communication between the Oswalds and members of the Russian community ceased.|Bouhe thoroughly disapproved of this and as a result almost all communication between the Oswalds and members of the Russian community ceased.
LJ043-0034|Contacts with De Mohrenschildt and his wife did continue and they saw the Oswalds occasionally until the spring of 1963.|Contacts with De Mohrenschildt and his wife did continue and they saw the Oswalds occasionally until the spring of nineteen sixty-three.
LJ043-0035|Shortly after his return from the Soviet Union, Oswald severed all relations with his mother;|Shortly after his return from the Soviet Union, Oswald severed all relations with his mother;
LJ043-0036|he did not see his brother Robert from Thanksgiving of 1962 until November 23, 1963.|he did not see his brother Robert from Thanksgiving of nineteen sixty-two until November twenty-three, nineteen sixty-three.
LJ043-0037|At the time of his defection, Oswald had said that neither his brother, Robert,|At the time of his defection, Oswald had said that neither his brother, Robert,
LJ043-0038|nor his mother were objects of his affection, quote, but only examples of workers in the U.S., end quote.|nor his mother were objects of his affection, quote, but only examples of workers in the U.S., end quote.
LJ043-0039|He also indicated to officials at the American Embassy in Moscow that his defection was motivated at least in part|He also indicated to officials at the American Embassy in Moscow that his defection was motivated at least in part
LJ043-0040|by so-called exploitation of his mother by the capitalist system.|by so-called exploitation of his mother by the capitalist system.
LJ043-0041|Consistent with this attitude|Consistent with this attitude
LJ043-0042|He first told his wife that he did not have a mother, but later admitted that he did but that, quote, he didn't love her very much, end quote.|He first told his wife that he did not have a mother, but later admitted that he did but that, quote, he didn't love her very much, end quote.
LJ043-0043|When they arrived from the Soviet Union, Oswald and his family lived at first with his brother Robert.|When they arrived from the Soviet Union, Oswald and his family lived at first with his brother Robert.
LJ043-0044|The latter testified that they, quote, were just together again, end quote, as if his brother, quote, had not been to Russia, end quote.|The latter testified that they, quote, were just together again, end quote, as if his brother, quote, had not been to Russia, end quote.
LJ043-0045|He also said that he and his family got along well with Marina Oswald and enjoyed showing her American things.|He also said that he and his family got along well with Marina Oswald and enjoyed showing her American things.
LJ043-0046|After about a month with his brother,|After about a month with his brother,
LJ043-0047|Oswald and his family lived for a brief period with his mother at her urging, but Oswald soon decided to move out.|Oswald and his family lived for a brief period with his mother at her urging, but Oswald soon decided to move out.
LJ043-0048|Marguerite Oswald visited her son and his family at the first apartment which he rented after his return, and tried to help them get settled there.|Marguerite Oswald visited her son and his family at the first apartment which he rented after his return, and tried to help them get settled there.
LJ043-0049|After she had bought some clothes for Marina Oswald and a highchair for the baby, Oswald emphatically told her to stop.|After she had bought some clothes for Marina Oswald and a highchair for the baby, Oswald emphatically told her to stop.
LJ043-0050|As Marguerite Oswald testified, quote,|As Marguerite Oswald testified, quote,
LJ043-0051|he strongly put me in my place about buying things for his wife that he himself could not buy, end quote.|he strongly put me in my place about buying things for his wife that he himself could not buy, end quote.
LJ043-0052|Oswald objected to his mother visiting the apartment|Oswald objected to his mother visiting the apartment
LJ043-0053|and became quite incensed with his wife when she would open the door for her in spite of his instructions to the contrary.|and became quite incensed with his wife when she would open the door for her in spite of his instructions to the contrary.
LJ043-0054|Oswald moved to Dallas on about October 8, 1962, without telling his mother where he was going.|Oswald moved to Dallas on about October eight, nineteen sixty-two, without telling his mother where he was going.
LJ043-0055|He never saw or communicated with her in any way again until she came to see him after the assassination.|He never saw or communicated with her in any way again until she came to see him after the assassination.
LJ043-0056|Even though Oswald cut off relations with his mother,|Even though Oswald cut off relations with his mother,
LJ043-0057|he attempted for the first time to learn something about his family background when he went to New Orleans in April of 1963.|he attempted for the first time to learn something about his family background when he went to New Orleans in April of nineteen sixty-three.
LJ043-0058|He visited some of his father's elderly relatives and the cemetery where his father was buried in an effort to develop the facts of his genealogy.|He visited some of his father's elderly relatives and the cemetery where his father was buried in an effort to develop the facts of his genealogy.
LJ043-0059|While it does not appear that he established any new relationships as a result of his investigation, he did obtain a large picture of his father|While it does not appear that he established any new relationships as a result of his investigation, he did obtain a large picture of his father
LJ043-0060|from one of the elderly relatives with whom he spoke. Oswald's interest in such things presents a sharp contrast with his attitude|from one of the elderly relatives with whom he spoke. Oswald's interest in such things presents a sharp contrast with his attitude
LJ043-0061|at the time of his defection, when he evidenced no interest in his father and hardly mentioned him, even when questioned.|at the time of his defection, when he evidenced no interest in his father and hardly mentioned him, even when questioned.
LJ043-0062|Oswald's defection, his interest in the Soviet Union, and his activities on behalf of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee|Oswald's defection, his interest in the Soviet Union, and his activities on behalf of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee
LJ043-0063|not only caused him difficulties in his employment relations, but they also provided him with excuses for employment failures|not only caused him difficulties in his employment relations, but they also provided him with excuses for employment failures
LJ043-0064|which were largely of his own making.|which were largely of his own making.
LJ043-0065|Oswald experienced some difficulty finding employment. Perhaps this was partially because of his lack of any specific skill or training.|Oswald experienced some difficulty finding employment. Perhaps this was partially because of his lack of any specific skill or training.
LJ043-0066|Some of his acquaintances, feeling that Oswald tried to impress people with the fact that he had lived and worked in Russia, were led to the belief|Some of his acquaintances, feeling that Oswald tried to impress people with the fact that he had lived and worked in Russia, were led to the belief
LJ043-0067|that his employment difficulties were caused by his telling prospective employers that he had last been employed in Minsk.|that his employment difficulties were caused by his telling prospective employers that he had last been employed in Minsk.
LJ043-0068|While he might have expected difficulty from such an approach, in fact|While he might have expected difficulty from such an approach, in fact
LJ043-0069|the evidence indicates that Oswald usually told his prospective employers and employment counselors that he had recently been discharged from the Marine Corps.|the evidence indicates that Oswald usually told his prospective employers and employment counselors that he had recently been discharged from the Marine Corps.
LJ043-0070|Oswald obtained a job in July of 1962 as a sheet metal worker with a company in Fort Worth.|Oswald obtained a job in July of nineteen sixty-two as a sheet metal worker with a company in Fort Worth.
LJ043-0071|His performance for that company was satisfactory.|His performance for that company was satisfactory.
LJ043-0072|Even though he told his wife that he had been fired, he voluntarily left on October 8, 1962, and moved to Dallas.|Even though he told his wife that he had been fired, he voluntarily left on October eight, nineteen sixty-two, and moved to Dallas.
LJ043-0073|On October 9, 1962 he went to the Dallas office of the Texas Employment Commission|On October nine, nineteen sixty-two he went to the Dallas office of the Texas Employment Commission
LJ043-0074|where he expressed a reluctance to work in the industrial field.|where he expressed a reluctance to work in the industrial field.
LJ043-0075|He indicated an interest in writing. An employment counselor testified, on the basis of a general aptitude test Oswald had taken,|He indicated an interest in writing. An employment counselor testified, on the basis of a general aptitude test Oswald had taken,
LJ043-0076|that he had some aptitude in that area, quote, because the verbal score is high and the clerical score is high, end quote,|that he had some aptitude in that area, quote, because the verbal score is high and the clerical score is high, end quote,
LJ043-0077|While that counselor found that he was qualified to handle many different types of jobs,|While that counselor found that he was qualified to handle many different types of jobs,
LJ043-0078|because of his need for immediate employment she attempted to obtain for him any job that was available at the time. Oswald made qualifying marks|because of his need for immediate employment she attempted to obtain for him any job that was available at the time. Oswald made qualifying marks
LJ043-0079|in 19 of 23 categories included on the general aptitude examination and scored 127 on the verbal test, as compared|in nineteen of twenty-three categories included on the general aptitude examination and scored one hundred twenty-seven on the verbal test, as compared
LJ043-0080|with 50 percent of the people taking it who score less than 100.|with fifty percent of the people taking it who score less than one hundred.
LJ043-0081|The counselor testified that there was some indication that Oswald was capable of doing college work|The counselor testified that there was some indication that Oswald was capable of doing college work
LJ043-0082|and noted that Oswald's verbal and clerical potential was, quote, outstanding, end quote.|and noted that Oswald's verbal and clerical potential was, quote, outstanding, end quote.
LJ043-0083|Employment Commission records concerning Oswald stated, quote, Well-groomed & spoken,|Employment Commission records concerning Oswald stated, quote, Well-groomed and spoken,
LJ043-0084|business suit, alert replies -- Expresses self extremely well, end quote.|business suit, alert replies -- Expresses self extremely well, end quote.
LJ043-0085|Oswald said that he hoped eventually to develop qualifications for employment as a junior executive|Oswald said that he hoped eventually to develop qualifications for employment as a junior executive
LJ043-0086|through a work-study program at a local college.|through a work-study program at a local college.
LJ043-0087|He indicated, however, that he would have to delay that program because of his immediate financial needs and responsibilities.|He indicated, however, that he would have to delay that program because of his immediate financial needs and responsibilities.
LJ043-0088|On October 11, 1962, the Employment Commission referred Oswald|On October eleven, nineteen sixty-two, the Employment Commission referred Oswald
LJ043-0089|to a commercial advertising photography firm in Dallas, where he was employed as a trainee starting October 12, 1962.|to a commercial advertising photography firm in Dallas, where he was employed as a trainee starting October twelve, nineteen sixty-two.
LJ043-0090|Even though Oswald indicated that he liked photographic work, his employer found that he was not an efficient worker.|Even though Oswald indicated that he liked photographic work, his employer found that he was not an efficient worker.
LJ043-0091|He was not able to produce photographic work|He was not able to produce photographic work
LJ043-0092|which adhered with sufficient precision to the job specifications and as a result too much of his work had to be redone.|which adhered with sufficient precision to the job specifications and as a result too much of his work had to be redone.
LJ043-0093|He also had difficulty in working with the other employees.|He also had difficulty in working with the other employees.
LJ043-0094|This was at least in part because of the close physical confines in which some of the work had to be done.|This was at least in part because of the close physical confines in which some of the work had to be done.
LJ043-0095|He did not seem to be able to make the accommodations necessary when people work under such conditions and as a result|He did not seem to be able to make the accommodations necessary when people work under such conditions and as a result
LJ043-0096|became involved in conflicts, some of which were fairly heated, with his fellow employees.|became involved in conflicts, some of which were fairly heated, with his fellow employees.
LJ043-0097|In February or March of 1963,|In February or March of nineteen sixty-three,
LJ043-0098|it began to appear that Oswald was having considerable difficulty doing accurate work and in getting along with the other employees.|it began to appear that Oswald was having considerable difficulty doing accurate work and in getting along with the other employees.
LJ043-0099|It appears that his discharge was hastened by the fact that he brought a Russian language newspaper to work.|It appears that his discharge was hastened by the fact that he brought a Russian language newspaper to work.
LJ043-0100|It is not possible to tell whether Oswald did this to provide an excuse for his eventual discharge,|It is not possible to tell whether Oswald did this to provide an excuse for his eventual discharge,
LJ043-0101|or whether he brought the Russian language newspaper with him one day after his other difficulties became clear.|or whether he brought the Russian language newspaper with him one day after his other difficulties became clear.
LJ043-0102|It is possible that his immediate supervisor noticed the newspaper at that time because his attention had otherwise been drawn more directly to Oswald.|It is possible that his immediate supervisor noticed the newspaper at that time because his attention had otherwise been drawn more directly to Oswald.
LJ043-0103|In any event, Oswald was discharged on April 6, 1963, ostensibly because of his inefficiency and difficult personality.|In any event, Oswald was discharged on April six, nineteen sixty-three, ostensibly because of his inefficiency and difficult personality.
LJ043-0104|His supervisor admitted, however,|His supervisor admitted, however,
LJ043-0105|that while he did not fire Oswald because of the newspaper incident or even weigh it heavily in his decision, quote,|that while he did not fire Oswald because of the newspaper incident or even weigh it heavily in his decision, quote,
LJ043-0106|it didn't do his case any good, end quote.|it didn't do his case any good, end quote.
LJ043-0107|Upon moving to New Orleans on April 24, 1963,|Upon moving to New Orleans on April twenty-four, nineteen sixty-three,
LJ043-0108|Oswald's employment problems became more difficult. He left his wife and child at the home of a friend, Mrs. Ruth Paine, of Irving, Texas.|Oswald's employment problems became more difficult. He left his wife and child at the home of a friend, Mrs. Ruth Paine, of Irving, Texas.
LJ043-0109|In New Orleans he obtained work as a greaser and oiler of coffee processing machines for the William B. Reily Co.,|In New Orleans he obtained work as a greaser and oiler of coffee processing machines for the William B. Reily Co.,
LJ043-0110|beginning May 10, 1963.|beginning May ten, nineteen sixty-three.
LJ043-0111|After securing this job and an apartment, Oswald asked his wife to join him.|After securing this job and an apartment, Oswald asked his wife to join him.
LJ043-0112|Mrs. Paine brought Oswald's family to New Orleans.|Mrs. Paine brought Oswald's family to New Orleans.
LJ043-0113|Refusing to admit that he could only get work as a greaser,|Refusing to admit that he could only get work as a greaser,
LJ043-0114|Oswald told his wife and Mrs. Paine that he was working as a commercial photographer.|Oswald told his wife and Mrs. Paine that he was working as a commercial photographer.
LJ043-0115|He lost his job on July 19, 1963, because his work was not satisfactory|He lost his job on July nineteen, nineteen sixty-three, because his work was not satisfactory
LJ043-0116|and because he spent too much time loitering in the garage next door, where he read rifle and hunting magazines.|and because he spent too much time loitering in the garage next door, where he read rifle and hunting magazines.
LJ043-0117|Oswald apparently concluded that his Fair Play for Cuba Committee activities were not related to his discharge.|Oswald apparently concluded that his Fair Play for Cuba Committee activities were not related to his discharge.
LJ043-0118|The correctness of that conclusion is supported by the fact that he does not seem to have been publicly identified with that organization until August 9,|The correctness of that conclusion is supported by the fact that he does not seem to have been publicly identified with that organization until August nine,
LJ043-0119|1963, almost a month after he lost his job.|nineteen sixty-three, almost a month after he lost his job.
LJ043-0120|His Fair Play for Cuba Committee activities, however, made it more difficult for him to obtain other employment.|His Fair Play for Cuba Committee activities, however, made it more difficult for him to obtain other employment.
LJ043-0121|A placement interviewer of the Louisiana Department of Labor|A placement interviewer of the Louisiana Department of Labor
LJ043-0122|who had previously interviewed Oswald, saw him on television and heard a radio debate in which he engaged on August 21, 1963.|who had previously interviewed Oswald, saw him on television and heard a radio debate in which he engaged on August twenty-one, nineteen sixty-three.
LJ043-0123|He consulted with his supervisor and, quote, it was determined that we should not undertake to furnish employment references for him, end quote.|He consulted with his supervisor and, quote, it was determined that we should not undertake to furnish employment references for him, end quote.
LJ043-0124|Ironically, he failed to get a job in another photographic firm after his return to Dallas in October of 1963,|Ironically, he failed to get a job in another photographic firm after his return to Dallas in October of nineteen sixty-three,
LJ043-0125|because the president of the photographic firm for which he had previously worked|because the president of the photographic firm for which he had previously worked
LJ043-0126|told the prospective employer that Oswald was, quote, kinda peculiar sometimes and that he had some knowledge of the Russian language, end quote.|told the prospective employer that Oswald was, quote, kinda peculiar sometimes and that he had some knowledge of the Russian language, end quote.
LJ043-0127|and that he, quote, may be a damn Communist. I can't tell you. If I was you, I wouldn't hire him, end quote.|and that he, quote, may be a damn Communist. I can't tell you. If I was you, I wouldn't hire him, end quote.
LJ043-0128|The plant superintendent of the new firm testified that, one of the employees of the old firm, quote,|The plant superintendent of the new firm testified that, one of the employees of the old firm, quote,
LJ043-0129|implied that Oswald's fellow employees did not like him because he was propagandizing|implied that Oswald's fellow employees did not like him because he was propagandizing
LJ043-0130|and had been seen reading a foreign newspaper, end quote.|and had been seen reading a foreign newspaper, end quote.
LJ043-0131|As a result Oswald was not hired.|As a result Oswald was not hired.
LJ043-0132|He subsequently found a job with the Texas School Book Depository for which he performed his duties satisfactorily.|He subsequently found a job with the Texas School Book Depository for which he performed his duties satisfactorily.
LJ043-0133|Attack on General Walker|Attack on General Walker
LJ043-0134|The Commission has concluded that on April 10, 1963,|The Commission has concluded that on April ten, nineteen sixty-three,
LJ043-0135|Oswald shot at Maj. Gen. Edwin A. Walker (Resigned, U.S. Army),|Oswald shot at Maj. Gen. Edwin A. Walker (Resigned, U.S. Army),
LJ043-0136|demonstrating once again his propensity to act dramatically and, in this instance violently, in furtherance of his beliefs.|demonstrating once again his propensity to act dramatically and, in this instance violently, in furtherance of his beliefs.
LJ043-0137|The shooting occurred 2 weeks before Oswald moved to New Orleans and a few days after he had been discharged by the photographic firm.|The shooting occurred two weeks before Oswald moved to New Orleans and a few days after he had been discharged by the photographic firm.
LJ043-0138|As indicated in chapter 4, Oswald had been planning his attack on General Walker for at least 1 and perhaps as much as 2 months.|As indicated in chapter four, Oswald had been planning his attack on General Walker for at least one and perhaps as much as two months.
LJ043-0139|He outlined his plans in a notebook and studied them at considerable length before his attack.|He outlined his plans in a notebook and studied them at considerable length before his attack.
LJ043-0140|He also studied Dallas bus schedules to prepare for his later use of buses to travel to and from General Walker's house.|He also studied Dallas bus schedules to prepare for his later use of buses to travel to and from General Walker's house.
LJ043-0141|Sometime after March 27, but according to Marina Oswald, prior to April 10, 1963,|Sometime after March twenty-seven, but according to Marina Oswald, prior to April ten, nineteen sixty-three,
LJ043-0142|Oswald posed for two pictures|Oswald posed for two pictures
LJ043-0143|with his recently acquired rifle and pistol, a copy of the March 24, 1963, issue of the Worker,|with his recently acquired rifle and pistol, a copy of the March twenty-four, nineteen sixty-three, issue of the Worker,
LJ043-0144|and the March 11, 1963, issue of the Militant.|and the March eleven, nineteen sixty-three, issue of the Militant.
LJ043-0145|He told his wife that he wanted to send the pictures to the Militant and he also asked her to keep one of the pictures for his daughter, June.|He told his wife that he wanted to send the pictures to the Militant and he also asked her to keep one of the pictures for his daughter, June.
LJ043-0146|Following his unsuccessful attack on Walker, Oswald returned home.|Following his unsuccessful attack on Walker, Oswald returned home.
LJ043-0148|She testified that she was agitated because she had found the note in Oswald's room,|She testified that she was agitated because she had found the note in Oswald's room,
LJ043-0149|where she had gone, contrary to his instructions, after she became, worried about his absence.|where she had gone, contrary to his instructions, after she became, worried about his absence.
LJ043-0150|She indicated that she had no advance knowledge of Oswald's plans,|She indicated that she had no advance knowledge of Oswald's plans,
LJ043-0151|that she became quite angry when Oswald told her what he had done, and that she made him promise never to repeat such a performance.|that she became quite angry when Oswald told her what he had done, and that she made him promise never to repeat such a performance.
LJ043-0152|She said that she kept the note to use against him, quote, if something like that should be repeated again, end quote.|She said that she kept the note to use against him, quote, if something like that should be repeated again, end quote.
LJ043-0153|When asked if Oswald requested the note back she testified that, quote, He forgot about it. But apparently|When asked if Oswald requested the note back she testified that, quote, He forgot about it. But apparently
LJ043-0154|after he thought that what he had written in his book might be proof against him, and he destroyed it (the book), end quote.|after he thought that what he had written in his book might be proof against him, and he destroyed it (the book), end quote.
LJ043-0155|She later gave the following testimony. Question:|She later gave the following testimony. Question:
LJ043-0156|After he brought the rifle home, then, he showed you the book?|After he brought the rifle home, then, he showed you the book?
LJ043-0157|Answer: Yes. Question: And you said it was not a good idea to keep this book? Answer: Yes.|Answer: Yes. Question: And you said it was not a good idea to keep this book? Answer: Yes.
LJ043-0158|Question: And then he burned the book?|Question: And then he burned the book?
LJ043-0159|Answer: Yes.|Answer: Yes.
LJ043-0160|Question: Did you ask him why he had not destroyed the book before he actually went to shoot General Walker?|Question: Did you ask him why he had not destroyed the book before he actually went to shoot General Walker?
LJ043-0161|Answer: It never came to me, myself, to ask him that question.|Answer: It never came to me, myself, to ask him that question.
LJ043-0162|Marina Oswald's testimony indicates that her husband was not particularly concerned about his continued possession of the most incriminating sort of evidence.|Marina Oswald's testimony indicates that her husband was not particularly concerned about his continued possession of the most incriminating sort of evidence.
LJ043-0163|If he had been successful and had been apprehended even for routine questioning, his apartment would undoubtedly have been searched,|If he had been successful and had been apprehended even for routine questioning, his apartment would undoubtedly have been searched,
LJ043-0164|and his role would have been made clear by the evidence which he had left behind.|and his role would have been made clear by the evidence which he had left behind.
LJ043-0165|Leaving the note and picture as he did would seem to indicate that he had considered the possibility of capture.|Leaving the note and picture as he did would seem to indicate that he had considered the possibility of capture.
LJ043-0166|Possibly he might have wanted to be caught, and wanted his involvement made clear if he was in fact apprehended.|Possibly he might have wanted to be caught, and wanted his involvement made clear if he was in fact apprehended.
LJ043-0167|Even after his wife told him to destroy the notebook|Even after his wife told him to destroy the notebook
LJ043-0168|he removed at least some of the pictures which had been pasted in it and saved them among his effects, where they were found after the assassination.|he removed at least some of the pictures which had been pasted in it and saved them among his effects, where they were found after the assassination.
LJ043-0169|His behavior was entirely consistent with his wife's testimony that, quote,|His behavior was entirely consistent with his wife's testimony that, quote,
LJ043-0170|I asked him what for he was making all these entries in the book and he answered that he wanted to leave a complete record so that all the details would be in it.|I asked him what for he was making all these entries in the book and he answered that he wanted to leave a complete record so that all the details would be in it.
LJ043-0171|I am guessing that perhaps he did it to appear to be a brave man in case he were arrested, but that is my supposition, end quote.|I am guessing that perhaps he did it to appear to be a brave man in case he were arrested, but that is my supposition, end quote.
LJ043-0172|The attempt on General Walker's life deserves close attention in any consideration of Oswald's possible motive for the assassination|The attempt on General Walker's life deserves close attention in any consideration of Oswald's possible motive for the assassination
LJ043-0173|and the trail of evidence he left behind him on that occasion.|and the trail of evidence he left behind him on that occasion.
LJ043-0174|While there are differences between the two events as far as Oswald's actions and planning are concerned, there are also similarities that should be considered.|While there are differences between the two events as far as Oswald's actions and planning are concerned, there are also similarities that should be considered.
LJ043-0175|The items which Oswald left at home when he made his attack on Walker suggest a strong concern for his place in history.|The items which Oswald left at home when he made his attack on Walker suggest a strong concern for his place in history.
LJ043-0176|If the attack had succeeded and Oswald had been caught, the pictures showing him with his rifle|If the attack had succeeded and Oswald had been caught, the pictures showing him with his rifle
LJ043-0177|and his Communist and Socialist Worker's Party newspapers would probably have appeared on the front pages of newspapers or magazines all over the country,|and his Communist and Socialist Worker's Party newspapers would probably have appeared on the front pages of newspapers or magazines all over the country,
LJ043-0179|The circumstances of the attack on Walker coupled with other indications that Oswald was concerned about his place in history|The circumstances of the attack on Walker coupled with other indications that Oswald was concerned about his place in history
LJ043-0180|and with the circumstances surrounding the assassination, have led the Commission to believe|and with the circumstances surrounding the assassination, have led the Commission to believe
LJ043-0181|that such concern is an important factor to consider in assessing possible motivation for the assassination.|that such concern is an important factor to consider in assessing possible motivation for the assassination.
LJ043-0182|In any event, the Walker incident indicates that in spite of the belief among those who knew him that he was apparently not dangerous,|In any event, the Walker incident indicates that in spite of the belief among those who knew him that he was apparently not dangerous,
LJ043-0184|to carry out a carefully planned killing of another human being and was willing to consummate such a purpose if he thought there was sufficient reason to do so.|to carry out a carefully planned killing of another human being and was willing to consummate such a purpose if he thought there was sufficient reason to do so.
LJ043-0186|Marina Oswald indicated that her husband had compared General Walker to Adolph Hitler.|Marina Oswald indicated that her husband had compared General Walker to Adolph Hitler.
LJ043-0187|She testified that Oswald said that General Walker, quote, was a very bad man, that he was a fascist,|She testified that Oswald said that General Walker, quote, was a very bad man, that he was a fascist,
LJ043-0188|that he was the leader of a fascist organization, and when I said that even though all of that might be true, just the same he had no right to take his life,|that he was the leader of a fascist organization, and when I said that even though all of that might be true, just the same he had no right to take his life,
LJ044-0001|Report of the President's Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy.|Report of the President's Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy.
LJ044-0002|The Warren Commission Report. By The President's Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy. Chapter 7.|The Warren Commission Report. By The President's Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy. Chapter seven.
LJ044-0003|Lee Harvey Oswald: Background and Possible Motives, Part 5.|Lee Harvey Oswald: Background and Possible Motives, Part five.
LJ044-0004|Political Activities|Political Activities
LJ044-0005|Oswald's political activities after his return to the United States center around his interest in Cuba and in the Fair Play for Cuba Committee.|Oswald's political activities after his return to the United States center around his interest in Cuba and in the Fair Play for Cuba Committee.
LJ044-0006|Although, as indicated above, the Commission has been unable to find any credible evidence|Although, as indicated above, the Commission has been unable to find any credible evidence
LJ044-0007|that he was involved in any conspiracy, his political activities do provide insight into certain aspects of Oswald's character|that he was involved in any conspiracy, his political activities do provide insight into certain aspects of Oswald's character
LJ044-0008|and into his possible motivation for the assassination.|and into his possible motivation for the assassination.
LJ044-0009|While it appears that he may have distributed Fair Play for Cuba Committee materials on one uneventful occasion in Dallas sometime during the period|While it appears that he may have distributed Fair Play for Cuba Committee materials on one uneventful occasion in Dallas sometime during the period
LJ044-0010|April 6 to 24, 1963 Oswald's first public identification with that cause was in New Orleans.|April six to twenty-four, nineteen sixty-three Oswald's first public identification with that cause was in New Orleans.
LJ044-0011|There, in late May and early June of 1963, under the name Lee Osborne,|There, in late May and early June of nineteen sixty-three, under the name Lee Osborne,
LJ044-0012|he had printed a handbill headed in large letters, quote,|he had printed a handbill headed in large letters, quote,
LJ044-0013|Hands Off Cuba, end quote, an application form for, and a membership card in,|Hands Off Cuba, end quote, an application form for, and a membership card in,
LJ044-0014|the New Orleans branch of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee.|the New Orleans branch of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee.
LJ044-0015|He first distributed his handbills and other material uneventfully in the vicinity of the U.S.S. Wasp,|He first distributed his handbills and other material uneventfully in the vicinity of the U.S.S. Wasp,
LJ044-0016|which was berthed at the Dumaine Street wharf in New Orleans, on June 16, 1963.|which was berthed at the Dumaine Street wharf in New Orleans, on June sixteen, nineteen sixty-three.
LJ044-0017|He distributed literature in downtown New Orleans on August 9, 1963,|He distributed literature in downtown New Orleans on August nine, nineteen sixty-three,
LJ044-0018|and was arrested because of a dispute with three anti-Castro Cuban exiles, and again on August 16, 1963.|and was arrested because of a dispute with three anti-Castro Cuban exiles, and again on August sixteen, nineteen sixty-three.
LJ044-0019|Following his arrest, he was interviewed by the police, and at his own request, by an agent of the FBI.|Following his arrest, he was interviewed by the police, and at his own request, by an agent of the FBI.
LJ044-0020|On August 17, 1963, he appeared briefly on a radio program and on August 21, 1963,|On August seventeen, nineteen sixty-three, he appeared briefly on a radio program and on August twenty-one, nineteen sixty-three,
LJ044-0021|he debated over radio station WDSU, New Orleans, with Carlos Bringuier,|he debated over radio station WDSU, New Orleans, with Carlos Bringuier,
LJ044-0022|one of the Cuban exiles who had been arrested with him on August 9. Bringuier claimed that on August 5, 1963,|one of the Cuban exiles who had been arrested with him on August nine. Bringuier claimed that on August five, nineteen sixty-three,
LJ044-0023|Oswald had attempted to infiltrate an anti-Castro organization with which he was associated.|Oswald had attempted to infiltrate an anti-Castro organization with which he was associated.
LJ044-0024|While Oswald publicly engaged in the activities described above, his, quote, organization, end quote, was a product of his imagination.|While Oswald publicly engaged in the activities described above, his, quote, organization, end quote, was a product of his imagination.
LJ044-0025|The imaginary president of the nonexistent chapter was named A. J. Hidell, the name that Oswald used when he purchased the assassination weapon.|The imaginary president of the nonexistent chapter was named A. J. Hidell, the name that Oswald used when he purchased the assassination weapon.
LJ044-0026|Marina Oswald said she signed that name, apparently chosen because it rhymed with "Fidel,"|Marina Oswald said she signed that name, apparently chosen because it rhymed with "Fidel,"
LJ044-0027|to her husband's membership card in the New Orleans chapter.|to her husband's membership card in the New Orleans chapter.
LJ044-0028|She testified that he threatened to beat her if she did not do so. The chapter had never been chartered by the national FPCC organization.|She testified that he threatened to beat her if she did not do so. The chapter had never been chartered by the national FPCC organization.
LJ044-0029|It appears to have been a solitary operation on Oswald's part in spite of his misstatements to the New Orleans police that it had 35 members,|It appears to have been a solitary operation on Oswald's part in spite of his misstatements to the New Orleans police that it had thirty-five members,
LJ044-0030|5 of which were usually present at meetings which were held once a month.|five of which were usually present at meetings which were held once a month.
LJ044-0031|Oswald's Fair Play for Cuba activities may be viewed as a very shrewd political operation|Oswald's Fair Play for Cuba activities may be viewed as a very shrewd political operation
LJ044-0032|in which one man single handedly created publicity for his cause or for himself.|in which one man single handedly created publicity for his cause or for himself.
LJ044-0033|It is also evidence of Oswald's reluctance to describe events accurately|It is also evidence of Oswald's reluctance to describe events accurately
LJ044-0034|and of his need to present himself to others as well as to himself in a light more favorable than was justified by reality.|and of his need to present himself to others as well as to himself in a light more favorable than was justified by reality.
LJ044-0035|This is suggested by his misleading and sometime untruthful statements in his letters to Mr. V. T. Lee,|This is suggested by his misleading and sometime untruthful statements in his letters to Mr. V. T. Lee,
LJ044-0036|then national director of FPCC. In one of those letters, dated August 1, 1963,|then national director of FPCC. In one of those letters, dated August one, nineteen sixty-three,
LJ044-0037|Oswald wrote that an office which he had previously claimed to have rented for FPCC activities had been, quote,|Oswald wrote that an office which he had previously claimed to have rented for FPCC activities had been, quote,
LJ044-0038|promptly closed 3 days later for some obscure reasons by the renters,|promptly closed three days later for some obscure reasons by the renters,
LJ044-0039|they said something about remodeling, etc. I'm sure you understand, end quote.|they said something about remodeling, etc. I'm sure you understand, end quote.
LJ044-0040|He wrote that, quote, thousands of circulars were distributed, end quote.|He wrote that, quote, thousands of circulars were distributed, end quote.
LJ044-0041|and that he continued to receive inquiries through his post office box which he endeavored, quote, to keep answering to the best of my ability, end quote.|and that he continued to receive inquiries through his post office box which he endeavored, quote, to keep answering to the best of my ability, end quote.
LJ044-0042|In his letter to V. T. Lee,|In his letter to V. T. Lee,
LJ044-0043|he stated that he was then alone in his efforts on behalf of FPCC, but he attributed his lack of support|he stated that he was then alone in his efforts on behalf of FPCC, but he attributed his lack of support
LJ044-0044|to an attack by Cuban exiles in a street demonstration and being, quote, officialy cautioned, end quote, by the police.|to an attack by Cuban exiles in a street demonstration and being, quote, officialy cautioned, end quote, by the police.
LJ044-0045|events which, quote, robbed me of what support I had leaving me alone, end quote.|events which, quote, robbed me of what support I had leaving me alone, end quote.
LJ044-0047|that anyone ever attacked any street demonstration in which Oswald was involved, except for the Bringuier incident mentioned above,|that anyone ever attacked any street demonstration in which Oswald was involved, except for the Bringuier incident mentioned above,
LJ044-0048|which occurred 8 days after Oswald wrote the above letter to V. T. Lee.|which occurred eight days after Oswald wrote the above letter to V. T. Lee.
LJ044-0049|Bringuier, who seemed to be familiar with many anti-Castro activities in New Orleans, was not aware of any such incident.|Bringuier, who seemed to be familiar with many anti-Castro activities in New Orleans, was not aware of any such incident.
LJ044-0050|Police reports also fail to reflect any activity on Oswald's part prior to August 9, 1963,|Police reports also fail to reflect any activity on Oswald's part prior to August nine, nineteen sixty-three,
LJ044-0051|except for the uneventful distribution of literature at the Dumaine Street wharf in June.|except for the uneventful distribution of literature at the Dumaine Street wharf in June.
LJ044-0052|Furthermore, the general tenor of Oswald's next letter to V. T. Lee,|Furthermore, the general tenor of Oswald's next letter to V. T. Lee,
LJ044-0053|in which he supported his report on the Bringuier incident with a copy of the charges made against him|in which he supported his report on the Bringuier incident with a copy of the charges made against him
LJ044-0054|and a newspaper clipping reporting the event, suggests that his previous story of an attack by Cuban exiles was at least greatly exaggerated.|and a newspaper clipping reporting the event, suggests that his previous story of an attack by Cuban exiles was at least greatly exaggerated.
LJ044-0055|While the legend, quote, FPCC, 544 Camp Street New Orleans, Louisiana, end quote,|While the legend, quote, FPCC, five four four Camp Street New Orleans, Louisiana, end quote,
LJ044-0056|was stamped on some literature that Oswald had in his possession at the time of his arrest in New Orleans,|was stamped on some literature that Oswald had in his possession at the time of his arrest in New Orleans,
LJ044-0058|that an anti-Castro organization had maintained offices there for a period ending early in 1962.|that an anti-Castro organization had maintained offices there for a period ending early in nineteen sixty-two.
LJ044-0059|The Commission has not been able to find any other indication that Oswald had rented an office in New Orleans.|The Commission has not been able to find any other indication that Oswald had rented an office in New Orleans.
LJ044-0060|In view of the limited amount of public activity on Oswald's part before August 9, 1963,|In view of the limited amount of public activity on Oswald's part before August nine, nineteen sixty-three,
LJ044-0061|there also seems to be no basis for his claim that he had distributed, quote,|there also seems to be no basis for his claim that he had distributed, quote,
LJ044-0062|thousands, end quote, of circulars, especially since he had claimed to have printed only 2,000|thousands, end quote, of circulars, especially since he had claimed to have printed only two thousand
LJ044-0063|and actually had only 1,000 printed.|and actually had only one thousand printed.
LJ044-0064|In addition, there is no evidence that he received any substantial amount of materials from the national headquarters.|In addition, there is no evidence that he received any substantial amount of materials from the national headquarters.
LJ044-0065|In another letter to V. T. Lee, dated August 17, 1963,|In another letter to V. T. Lee, dated August seventeen, nineteen sixty-three,
LJ044-0066|Oswald wrote that he had appeared on Mr. William Stuckey's 15-minute television program over WDSU-TV called, quote,|Oswald wrote that he had appeared on Mr. William Stuckey's fifteen-minute television program over WDSU-TV called, quote,
LJ044-0067|Latin American Focus, end quote,|Latin American Focus, end quote,
LJ044-0068|as a result of which he was, quote, flooded with callers and invitations to debates, etc. as well as people interested in joining the F.P.C.C.|as a result of which he was, quote, flooded with callers and invitations to debates, etc. as well as people interested in joining the F.P.C.C.
LJ044-0069|New Orleans branch, end quote.|New Orleans branch, end quote.
LJ044-0070|WDSU has no program of any kind called, quote, Latin American Focus, end quote.|WDSU has no program of any kind called, quote, Latin American Focus, end quote.
LJ044-0071|Stuckey had a radio program called, quote, Latin Listening Post, end quote,|Stuckey had a radio program called, quote, Latin Listening Post, end quote,
LJ044-0072|on which Oswald was heard for less than 5 minutes on August 17, 1963.|on which Oswald was heard for less than five minutes on August seventeen, nineteen sixty-three.
LJ044-0073|It appears that Oswald had only one caller in response to all of his FPCC activities,|It appears that Oswald had only one caller in response to all of his FPCC activities,
LJ044-0074|an agent of Bringuier's attempting to learn more about the true nature|an agent of Bringuier's attempting to learn more about the true nature
LJ044-0075|of the alleged FPCC, quote, organization, end quote, in New Orleans.|of the alleged FPCC, quote, organization, end quote, in New Orleans.
LJ044-0076|Oswald's statements suggest that he hoped to be flooded with callers and invitations to debate.|Oswald's statements suggest that he hoped to be flooded with callers and invitations to debate.
LJ044-0077|This would have made him a real center of attention as he must have been when he first arrived in the Soviet Union|This would have made him a real center of attention as he must have been when he first arrived in the Soviet Union
LJ044-0078|and as he was to some extent when he returned to the United States.|and as he was to some extent when he returned to the United States.
LJ044-0079|The limited notoriety that Oswald received as a result of the street fracas and in the subsequent radio debate|The limited notoriety that Oswald received as a result of the street fracas and in the subsequent radio debate
LJ044-0080|was apparently not enough to satisfy him. He exaggerated in his letters to V. T. Lee in an apparent attempt|was apparently not enough to satisfy him. He exaggerated in his letters to V. T. Lee in an apparent attempt
LJ044-0081|to make himself and his activities appear far more important than they really were.|to make himself and his activities appear far more important than they really were.
LJ044-0082|His attempt to express himself through his Fair Play for Cuba activities, however,|His attempt to express himself through his Fair Play for Cuba activities, however,
LJ044-0083|was greatly impeded by the fact that the radio debate over WDSU on August 21, 1963,|was greatly impeded by the fact that the radio debate over WDSU on August twenty-one, nineteen sixty-three,
LJ044-0084|brought out the history of his defection to the Soviet Union.|brought out the history of his defection to the Soviet Union.
LJ044-0085|The basic facts of the event were uncovered independently by William Stuckey, who arranged the debate, and Edward Butler,|The basic facts of the event were uncovered independently by William Stuckey, who arranged the debate, and Edward Butler,
LJ044-0086|executive director of the Information Council of the Americas, who also appeared on the program.|executive director of the Information Council of the Americas, who also appeared on the program.
LJ044-0087|Oswald was confronted with those facts at the beginning of the debate and was so thrown on the defensive by this that he was forced to state that|Oswald was confronted with those facts at the beginning of the debate and was so thrown on the defensive by this that he was forced to state that
LJ044-0088|Fair Play for Cuba was, quote, not at all Communist controlled regardless of the fact that I had the experience of living in Russia, end quote.|Fair Play for Cuba was, quote, not at all Communist controlled regardless of the fact that I had the experience of living in Russia, end quote.
LJ044-0089|Stuckey testified that uncovering Oswald's defection was very important, quote,|Stuckey testified that uncovering Oswald's defection was very important, quote,
LJ044-0090|I think that we finished him on that program because we had publicly linked the Fair Play for Cuba Committee|I think that we finished him on that program because we had publicly linked the Fair Play for Cuba Committee
LJ044-0091|with a fellow who had lived in Russia for 3 years and who was an admitted Marxist.|with a fellow who had lived in Russia for three years and who was an admitted Marxist.
LJ044-0092|The interesting thing, or rather the danger involved, was the fact that Oswald seemed like such a nice, bright boy|The interesting thing, or rather the danger involved, was the fact that Oswald seemed like such a nice, bright boy
LJ044-0093|and was extremely believable before this. We thought the fellow could probably get quite a few members if he was really indeed serious about getting members.|and was extremely believable before this. We thought the fellow could probably get quite a few members if he was really indeed serious about getting members.
LJ044-0094|We figured after this broadcast of August 21, why, that was no longer possible, end quote.|We figured after this broadcast of August twenty-one, why, that was no longer possible, end quote.
LJ044-0095|In spite of the fact that Oswald had been surprised and was on the defensive throughout the debate, according to Stuckey, quote,|In spite of the fact that Oswald had been surprised and was on the defensive throughout the debate, according to Stuckey, quote,
LJ044-0096|Mr. Oswald handled himself very well, as usual, end quote.|Mr. Oswald handled himself very well, as usual, end quote.
LJ044-0097|Stuckey thought Oswald, quote, appeared to be a very logical, intelligent fellow, end quote, and, quote, was arrested by his cleancutness, end quote.|Stuckey thought Oswald, quote, appeared to be a very logical, intelligent fellow, end quote, and, quote, was arrested by his cleancutness, end quote.
LJ044-0098|He did not think Oswald looked like the, quote, type, end quote, that he would have expected to find associating with a group such as the Fair Play for Cuba Committee.|He did not think Oswald looked like the, quote, type, end quote, that he would have expected to find associating with a group such as the Fair Play for Cuba Committee.
LJ044-0099|Stuckey thought that Oswald acted very much as would a young attorney.|Stuckey thought that Oswald acted very much as would a young attorney.
LJ044-0100|Following the disclosure of his defection, Oswald sought advice from the Communist Party, U.S.A., concerning his Fair Play for Cuba activity.|Following the disclosure of his defection, Oswald sought advice from the Communist Party, U.S.A., concerning his Fair Play for Cuba activity.
LJ044-0101|He had previously sent, apparently unsolicited, to the Party newspaper, the Worker,|He had previously sent, apparently unsolicited, to the Party newspaper, the Worker,
LJ044-0102|samples of his photographic work, offering to contribute that sort of service without charge.|samples of his photographic work, offering to contribute that sort of service without charge.
LJ044-0103|The Worker replied, quote, Your kind offer is most welcomed and from time to time we shall call on you, end quote.|The Worker replied, quote, Your kind offer is most welcomed and from time to time we shall call on you, end quote.
LJ044-0104|He later wrote to another official of the Worker, seeking employment, and mentioning the praise he had received for submitting his photographic work.|He later wrote to another official of the Worker, seeking employment, and mentioning the praise he had received for submitting his photographic work.
LJ044-0105|He presented Arnold Johnson, Gus Hall,|He presented Arnold Johnson, Gus Hall,
LJ044-0106|and Benjamin J. Davis honorary membership cards in his nonexistent New Orleans chapter of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee,|and Benjamin J. Davis honorary membership cards in his nonexistent New Orleans chapter of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee,
LJ044-0107|and advised them of some of his activities on behalf of the organization.|and advised them of some of his activities on behalf of the organization.
LJ044-0108|Arnold Johnson, director of the information and lecture bureau of the Communist Party, U.S.A., replied stating, quote,|Arnold Johnson, director of the information and lecture bureau of the Communist Party, U.S.A., replied stating, quote,
LJ044-0110|We do not have any organizational ties with the Committee, and yet there is much material that we issue from time to time that is important|We do not have any organizational ties with the Committee, and yet there is much material that we issue from time to time that is important
LJ044-0111|for anybody who is concerned about developments in Cuba, end quote,|for anybody who is concerned about developments in Cuba, end quote,
LJ044-0112|Marina Oswald said that such correspondence from people he considered important meant much to Oswald.|Marina Oswald said that such correspondence from people he considered important meant much to Oswald.
LJ044-0113|After he had begun his Cuban activity in New Orleans, quote,|After he had begun his Cuban activity in New Orleans, quote,
LJ044-0114|he received a letter from somebody in New York, some Communist -- probably from New York -- I am not sure from where -- from some Communist leader and he was very happy,|he received a letter from somebody in New York, some Communist -- probably from New York -- I am not sure from where -- from some Communist leader and he was very happy,
LJ044-0115|he felt that this was a great man that he had received the letter from, end quote.|he felt that this was a great man that he had received the letter from, end quote.
LJ044-0116|Since he seemed to feel that no one else understood his political views, the letter was of great value to him for it, quote, was proof|Since he seemed to feel that no one else understood his political views, the letter was of great value to him for it, quote, was proof
LJ044-0117|that there were people who understood his activity, end quote.|that there were people who understood his activity, end quote.
LJ044-0118|He anticipated that the full disclosure of his defection would hinder him in, quote, the struggle for progress and freedom in the United States, end quote.|He anticipated that the full disclosure of his defection would hinder him in, quote, the struggle for progress and freedom in the United States, end quote.
LJ044-0119|into which Oswald, in his own words, had, quote, thrown himself. He sought advice from the central committee of the Communist Party, U.S.A.,|into which Oswald, in his own words, had, quote, thrown himself. He sought advice from the central committee of the Communist Party, U.S.A.,
LJ044-0120|in a letter dated August 28, 1963, about whether he could, quote, continue to fight,|in a letter dated August twenty-eight, nineteen sixty-three, about whether he could, quote, continue to fight,
LJ044-0121|handicapped as it were, by my past record and compete with anti-progressive forces, above-ground or whether in your opinion|handicapped as it were, by my past record and compete with anti-progressive forces, above-ground or whether in your opinion
LJ044-0122|I should always remain in the background, i.e. underground, end quote.|I should always remain in the background, i.e. underground, end quote.
LJ044-0123|Stating that he had used his "position" with what he claimed to be the local branch of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee to, quote, foster communist ideals, end quote,|Stating that he had used his "position" with what he claimed to be the local branch of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee to, quote, foster communist ideals, end quote,
LJ044-0124|Oswald wrote that he felt that he might have compromised the FPCC and expressed concern lest, quote, Our opponents could use my background|Oswald wrote that he felt that he might have compromised the FPCC and expressed concern lest, quote, Our opponents could use my background
LJ044-0125|of residence in the U.S.S.R. against any cause which I join, by association,|of residence in the U.S.S.R. against any cause which I join, by association,
LJ044-0126|they could say the organization of which I am a member, is Russian controlled, etc, end quote.|they could say the organization of which I am a member, is Russian controlled, etc, end quote.
LJ044-0127|In reply Arnold Johnson advised Oswald that, while as an American citizen he had a right to participate in such organizations as he wished, quote,|In reply Arnold Johnson advised Oswald that, while as an American citizen he had a right to participate in such organizations as he wished, quote,
LJ044-0128|there are a number of organizations, including possibly Fair Play, which are of a very broad character,|there are a number of organizations, including possibly Fair Play, which are of a very broad character,
LJ044-0129|and often it is advisable for some people to remain in the background, not underground, end quote.|and often it is advisable for some people to remain in the background, not underground, end quote.
LJ044-0130|By August of 1963, after a short 3 months in New Orleans, the city in which he had been born and had lived most of his early life,|By August of nineteen sixty-three, after a short three months in New Orleans, the city in which he had been born and had lived most of his early life,
LJ044-0131|Oswald had fallen on difficult times.|Oswald had fallen on difficult times.
LJ044-0132|He had not liked his job as a greaser of coffee processing machinery and he held it for only a little over 2 months.|He had not liked his job as a greaser of coffee processing machinery and he held it for only a little over two months.
LJ044-0133|He had not found another job. His wife was expecting their second child in October and there was concern about the cost which would be involved.|He had not found another job. His wife was expecting their second child in October and there was concern about the cost which would be involved.
LJ044-0134|His brief foray on behalf of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee had failed to win any support.|His brief foray on behalf of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee had failed to win any support.
LJ044-0135|While he had drawn some attention to himself and had actually appeared on two radio programs, he had been attacked by Cuban exiles and arrested,|While he had drawn some attention to himself and had actually appeared on two radio programs, he had been attacked by Cuban exiles and arrested,
LJ044-0136|an event which his wife thought upset him and as a result of which, quote, he became less active, he cooled off a little, end quote.|an event which his wife thought upset him and as a result of which, quote, he became less active, he cooled off a little, end quote.
LJ044-0137|More seriously, the facts of his defection had become known, leaving him open to almost unanswerable attack by those who opposed his views.|More seriously, the facts of his defection had become known, leaving him open to almost unanswerable attack by those who opposed his views.
LJ044-0138|It would not have been possible to have followed Arnold Johnson's advice to remain in the background,|It would not have been possible to have followed Arnold Johnson's advice to remain in the background,
LJ044-0139|since there was no background to the New Orleans FPCC, quote, organization, end quote, which consisted solely of Oswald.|since there was no background to the New Orleans FPCC, quote, organization, end quote, which consisted solely of Oswald.
LJ044-0140|Furthermore, he had apparently not received any letters from the national headquarters of FPCC since May 29, 1963,|Furthermore, he had apparently not received any letters from the national headquarters of FPCC since May twenty-nine, nineteen sixty-three,
LJ044-0141|even though he had written four detailed letters since that time to Mr. V. T. Lee and had also kept the national headquarters informed|even though he had written four detailed letters since that time to Mr. V. T. Lee and had also kept the national headquarters informed
LJ044-0142|of each of his changes of mailing address.|of each of his changes of mailing address.
LJ044-0143|Those events no doubt had their effects on Oswald.|Those events no doubt had their effects on Oswald.
LJ044-0144|Interest in Cuba|Interest in Cuba
LJ044-0145|By August of 1963, Oswald had for some time been considering the possibility of leaving the United States again.|By August of nineteen sixty-three, Oswald had for some time been considering the possibility of leaving the United States again.
LJ044-0146|On June 24, 1963, he applied for a new passport|On June twenty-four, nineteen sixty-three, he applied for a new passport
LJ044-0147|and in late June or early July he told his wife that he wanted to return to the Soviet Union with her. She said that he was extremely upset,|and in late June or early July he told his wife that he wanted to return to the Soviet Union with her. She said that he was extremely upset,
LJ044-0148|very unhappy, and that he actually wept when he told her that.|very unhappy, and that he actually wept when he told her that.
LJ044-0149|He said that nothing kept him in the United States, that he would not lose anything if he returned to the Soviet Union, that he wanted to be with her|He said that nothing kept him in the United States, that he would not lose anything if he returned to the Soviet Union, that he wanted to be with her
LJ044-0150|and that it would be better to have less and not have to be concerned about tomorrow.|and that it would be better to have less and not have to be concerned about tomorrow.
LJ044-0151|As a result of that conversation, Marina Oswald wrote the Soviet Embassy in Washington concerning a request she had first made|As a result of that conversation, Marina Oswald wrote the Soviet Embassy in Washington concerning a request she had first made
LJ044-0152|on February 17, 1963, for permission for herself and June to return to the Soviet Union.|on February seventeen, nineteen sixty-three, for permission for herself and June to return to the Soviet Union.
LJ044-0153|While that first request, made according to Marina Oswald at her husband's insistence, specifically stated that Oswald was to remain in the United States,|While that first request, made according to Marina Oswald at her husband's insistence, specifically stated that Oswald was to remain in the United States,
LJ044-0154|she wrote in her letter of July 1963,|she wrote in her letter of July nineteen sixty-three,
LJ044-0155|that things are improving due to the fact that my husband expresses a sincere wish to return together with me to the USSR. Unknown to his wife, however,|that things are improving due to the fact that my husband expresses a sincere wish to return together with me to the USSR. Unknown to his wife, however,
LJ044-0156|Oswald apparently enclosed a note with her letter of July in which|Oswald apparently enclosed a note with her letter of July in which
LJ044-0157|he requested the Embassy to rush his wife's entrance visa because of the impending birth of the second child but stated that, quote,|he requested the Embassy to rush his wife's entrance visa because of the impending birth of the second child but stated that, quote,
LJ044-0158|As for my return entrance visa please consider it separately. End quote.|As for my return entrance visa please consider it separately. End quote.
LJ044-0159|Thus while Oswald's real intentions, assuming that they were known to himself, are not clear,|Thus while Oswald's real intentions, assuming that they were known to himself, are not clear,
LJ044-0160|he may not have intended to go to the Soviet Union directly, if at all. It appears that he really wanted to go to Cuba.|he may not have intended to go to the Soviet Union directly, if at all. It appears that he really wanted to go to Cuba.
LJ044-0161|In his wife's words, quote,|In his wife's words, quote,
LJ044-0162|I only know that his basic desire was to get to Cuba by any means, and that all the rest of it was window dressing for that purpose. End quote.|I only know that his basic desire was to get to Cuba by any means, and that all the rest of it was window dressing for that purpose. End quote.
LJ044-0163|Marina Oswald testified that her husband engaged in Fair Play for Cuba Committee activities, quote,|Marina Oswald testified that her husband engaged in Fair Play for Cuba Committee activities, quote,
LJ044-0164|primarily for purposes of self-advertising.|primarily for purposes of self-advertising.
LJ044-0165|He wanted to be arrested. I think he wanted to get into the newspapers, so that he would be known. End quote.|He wanted to be arrested. I think he wanted to get into the newspapers, so that he would be known. End quote.
LJ044-0166|According to Marina Oswald, he thought that would help him when he got to Cuba.|According to Marina Oswald, he thought that would help him when he got to Cuba.
LJ044-0167|He asked his wife to help him to hijack an airplane to get there, but gave up that scheme when she refused.|He asked his wife to help him to hijack an airplane to get there, but gave up that scheme when she refused.
LJ044-0168|During this period Oswald may have practiced opening and closing the bolt on his rifle in a screened porch in his apartment.|During this period Oswald may have practiced opening and closing the bolt on his rifle in a screened porch in his apartment.
LJ044-0169|In September he began to review Spanish.|In September he began to review Spanish.
LJ044-0170|He approved arrangements for his family to return to Irving, Texas, to live with Mrs. Ruth Paine.|He approved arrangements for his family to return to Irving, Texas, to live with Mrs. Ruth Paine.
LJ044-0171|On September 20, 1963, Mrs. Paine and her two children arrived in New Orleans from a trip to the East Coast|On September twenty, nineteen sixty-three, Mrs. Paine and her two children arrived in New Orleans from a trip to the East Coast
LJ044-0172|and left for Irving with Marina Oswald and June and most of the Oswalds' effects 3 days later.|and left for Irving with Marina Oswald and June and most of the Oswalds' effects three days later.
LJ044-0173|While Marina Oswald knew of her husband's plan to go to Mexico and thence to Cuba if possible, Mrs. Paine was told that Oswald was going to Houston|While Marina Oswald knew of her husband's plan to go to Mexico and thence to Cuba if possible, Mrs. Paine was told that Oswald was going to Houston
LJ044-0174|and possibly to Philadelphia to look for work.|and possibly to Philadelphia to look for work.
LJ044-0175|Oswald left for Mexico City on September 25, 1963, and arrived on September 27, 1963.|Oswald left for Mexico City on September twenty-five, nineteen sixty-three, and arrived on September twenty-seven, nineteen sixty-three.
LJ044-0176|He went almost directly to the Cuban Embassy and applied for a visa to Cuba in transit to Russia.|He went almost directly to the Cuban Embassy and applied for a visa to Cuba in transit to Russia.
LJ044-0177|Representing himself as the head of the New Orleans branch of the, quote, organization called Fair Play for Cuba, end quote,|Representing himself as the head of the New Orleans branch of the, quote, organization called Fair Play for Cuba, end quote,
LJ044-0178|he stated his desire that he should be accepted as a friend of the Cuban Revolution.|he stated his desire that he should be accepted as a friend of the Cuban Revolution.
LJ044-0179|He apparently based his claim for a visa in transit to Russia|He apparently based his claim for a visa in transit to Russia
LJ044-0180|on his previous residence, his work permit for that country, and several unidentified letters in the Russian language.|on his previous residence, his work permit for that country, and several unidentified letters in the Russian language.
LJ044-0181|The Cubans would not, however, give him a visa until he had received one from the Soviets, which involved a delay of several months.|The Cubans would not, however, give him a visa until he had received one from the Soviets, which involved a delay of several months.
LJ044-0182|When faced with that situation Oswald became greatly agitated, and although he later unsuccessfully attempted|When faced with that situation Oswald became greatly agitated, and although he later unsuccessfully attempted
LJ044-0183|to obtain a Soviet visa at the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City, he insisted that he was entitled to the Cuban visa because of his background,|to obtain a Soviet visa at the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City, he insisted that he was entitled to the Cuban visa because of his background,
LJ044-0184|partisanship, and personal activities on behalf of the Cuban government.|partisanship, and personal activities on behalf of the Cuban government.
LJ044-0185|He engaged in an angry argument with the consul who finally told him that, quote, as far as he was concerned|He engaged in an angry argument with the consul who finally told him that, quote, as far as he was concerned
LJ044-0186|he would not give him a visa, end quote, and that, quote,|he would not give him a visa, end quote, and that, quote,
LJ044-0187|a person like him (Oswald) in place of aiding the Cuban Revolution, was doing it harm, end quote.|a person like him (Oswald) in place of aiding the Cuban Revolution, was doing it harm, end quote.
LJ044-0188|Oswald must have been thoroughly disillusioned when he left Mexico City on October 2, 1963.|Oswald must have been thoroughly disillusioned when he left Mexico City on October two, nineteen sixty-three.
LJ044-0189|In spite of his former residence in the Soviet Union and his Fair Play for Cuba Committee activities he had been rebuffed|In spite of his former residence in the Soviet Union and his Fair Play for Cuba Committee activities he had been rebuffed
LJ044-0190|by the officials of both Cuba and the Soviet Union in Mexico City.|by the officials of both Cuba and the Soviet Union in Mexico City.
LJ044-0191|Now there appeared to be no chance to get to Cuba, where he had thought he might find his communist ideal. The U.S. Government would not permit travel there|Now there appeared to be no chance to get to Cuba, where he had thought he might find his communist ideal. The U.S. Government would not permit travel there
LJ044-0192|and as far as the performance of the Cubans themselves was concerned, he was, quote, disappointed at not being able to get to Cuba|and as far as the performance of the Cubans themselves was concerned, he was, quote, disappointed at not being able to get to Cuba
LJ044-0193|and he didn't have any great desire to do so any more because he had run into, as he himself said -- into bureaucracy and red tape, end quote.|and he didn't have any great desire to do so any more because he had run into, as he himself said -- into bureaucracy and red tape, end quote.
LJ044-0194|Oswald's attempt to go to Cuba|Oswald's attempt to go to Cuba
LJ044-0195|was another act which expressed his hostility toward the United States and its institutions as well as a concomitant attachment|was another act which expressed his hostility toward the United States and its institutions as well as a concomitant attachment
LJ044-0196|to a country in which he must have thought were embodied the political principles to which he had been committed for so long.|to a country in which he must have thought were embodied the political principles to which he had been committed for so long.
LJ044-0197|It should be noted that his interest in Cuba seems to have increased along with the sense of frustration which must have developed|It should be noted that his interest in Cuba seems to have increased along with the sense of frustration which must have developed
LJ044-0198|as he experienced successive failures in his jobs, in his political activity, and in his personal relationships.|as he experienced successive failures in his jobs, in his political activity, and in his personal relationships.
LJ044-0199|In retrospect his attempt to go to Cuba or return to the Soviet Union may well have been Oswald's last escape hatch,|In retrospect his attempt to go to Cuba or return to the Soviet Union may well have been Oswald's last escape hatch,
LJ044-0200|his last gambit to extricate himself from the mediocrity and defeat which plagued him throughout most of his life.|his last gambit to extricate himself from the mediocrity and defeat which plagued him throughout most of his life.
LJ044-0201|Oswald's activities with regard to Cuba raise serious questions as to how much he might have been motivated in the assassination|Oswald's activities with regard to Cuba raise serious questions as to how much he might have been motivated in the assassination
LJ044-0202|by a desire to aid the Castro regime, which President Kennedy so outspokenly criticized.|by a desire to aid the Castro regime, which President Kennedy so outspokenly criticized.
LJ044-0203|For example, the Dallas Times Herald of November 19, 1963,|For example, the Dallas Times Herald of November nineteen, nineteen sixty-three,
LJ044-0204|prominently reported President Kennedy as having, quote, all but invited the Cuban people today to overthrow Fidel Castro's Communist regime|prominently reported President Kennedy as having, quote, all but invited the Cuban people today to overthrow Fidel Castro's Communist regime
LJ044-0205|and promised prompt U.S. aid if they do, end quote.|and promised prompt U.S. aid if they do, end quote.
LJ044-0206|The Castro regime severely attacked President Kennedy in connection with the Bay of Pigs affair, the Cuban missile crisis, the ban on travel to Cuba,|The Castro regime severely attacked President Kennedy in connection with the Bay of Pigs affair, the Cuban missile crisis, the ban on travel to Cuba,
LJ044-0207|the economic embargo against that country, and the general policy of the United States with regard to Cuba.|the economic embargo against that country, and the general policy of the United States with regard to Cuba.
LJ044-0208|An examination of the Militant, to which Oswald subscribed,|An examination of the Militant, to which Oswald subscribed,
LJ044-0209|for the 3-month period prior to the assassination reflects an extremely critical attitude toward President Kennedy and his administration|for the three-month period prior to the assassination reflects an extremely critical attitude toward President Kennedy and his administration
LJ044-0210|concerning Cuban policy in general as well as on the issues of automation and civil rights, issues which appeared to concern Oswald a great deal.|concerning Cuban policy in general as well as on the issues of automation and civil rights, issues which appeared to concern Oswald a great deal.
LJ044-0211|The Militant also reflected a critical attitude toward President Kennedy's attempts to reduce tensions between the United States and the Soviet Union.|The Militant also reflected a critical attitude toward President Kennedy's attempts to reduce tensions between the United States and the Soviet Union.
LJ044-0212|It also dealt with the fear of the Castro regime that such a policy might result in its abandonment by the Soviet Union.|It also dealt with the fear of the Castro regime that such a policy might result in its abandonment by the Soviet Union.
LJ044-0213|The October 7, 1963, issue of the Militant|The October seven, nineteen sixty-three, issue of the Militant
LJ044-0214|reported Castro as saying Cuba could not accept a situation where at the same time the United States was trying to ease world tensions|reported Castro as saying Cuba could not accept a situation where at the same time the United States was trying to ease world tensions
LJ044-0215|it also was increasing its efforts to tighten the noose around Cuba.|it also was increasing its efforts to tighten the noose around Cuba.
LJ044-0217|was also reported in the October 1, 1963, issue of the Worker, to which Oswald also subscribed.|was also reported in the October one, nineteen sixty-three, issue of the Worker, to which Oswald also subscribed.
LJ044-0218|In this connection it should be noted that in speaking of the Worker, Oswald told Michael Paine, apparently in all seriousness, that, quote,|In this connection it should be noted that in speaking of the Worker, Oswald told Michael Paine, apparently in all seriousness, that, quote,
LJ044-0219|you could tell what they wanted you to do by reading between the lines, reading the thing and doing a little reading between the lines, end quote.|you could tell what they wanted you to do by reading between the lines, reading the thing and doing a little reading between the lines, end quote.
LJ044-0220|The general conflict of views between the United States and Cuba was, of course, reflected in other media to such an extent|The general conflict of views between the United States and Cuba was, of course, reflected in other media to such an extent
LJ044-0221|that there can be no doubt that Oswald was aware generally of the critical attitude that Castro expressed about President Kennedy.|that there can be no doubt that Oswald was aware generally of the critical attitude that Castro expressed about President Kennedy.
LJ044-0222|Oswald was asked during the New Orleans radio debate in which he engaged on August 21, 1963,|Oswald was asked during the New Orleans radio debate in which he engaged on August twenty-one, nineteen sixty-three,
LJ044-0223|whether or not he agreed with Castro that President Kennedy was a, quote, ruffian and a thief, end quote. He replied that he, quote,|whether or not he agreed with Castro that President Kennedy was a, quote, ruffian and a thief, end quote. He replied that he, quote,
LJ044-0224|would not agree with that particular wording, end quote.|would not agree with that particular wording, end quote.
LJ044-0225|It should also be noted, however, that one witness testified that shortly before the assassination|It should also be noted, however, that one witness testified that shortly before the assassination
LJ044-0226|Oswald had expressed approval of President Kennedy's active role in the area of civil rights.|Oswald had expressed approval of President Kennedy's active role in the area of civil rights.
LJ044-0227|Although Oswald could possibly have been motivated in part by his sympathy for the Castro government,|Although Oswald could possibly have been motivated in part by his sympathy for the Castro government,
LJ044-0228|it should be remembered that his wife testified that he was disappointed with his failure to get to Cuba|it should be remembered that his wife testified that he was disappointed with his failure to get to Cuba
LJ044-0229|and had lost his desire to do so because of the bureaucracy and red tape which he had encountered.|and had lost his desire to do so because of the bureaucracy and red tape which he had encountered.
LJ044-0230|His unhappy experience with the Cuban consul seems thus to have reduced his enthusiasm for the Castro regime and his desire to go to Cuba.|His unhappy experience with the Cuban consul seems thus to have reduced his enthusiasm for the Castro regime and his desire to go to Cuba.
LJ044-0231|While some of Castro's more severe criticisms of President Kennedy might have led Oswald to believe that he would be well received in Cuba|While some of Castro's more severe criticisms of President Kennedy might have led Oswald to believe that he would be well received in Cuba
LJ044-0232|after he had assassinated the American President, it does not appear that he had any plans to go there.|after he had assassinated the American President, it does not appear that he had any plans to go there.
LJ044-0233|Oswald was carrying only $13.87 at the time of his arrest, although he had left, apparently by design,|Oswald was carrying only thirteen dollars, eighty-seven cents at the time of his arrest, although he had left, apparently by design,
LJ044-0234|$170 in a wallet in his wife's room in Irving.|one hundred seventy dollars in a wallet in his wife's room in Irving.
LJ044-0235|If there was no conspiracy which would help him escape, the possibility of which has been considered in chapter 6,|If there was no conspiracy which would help him escape, the possibility of which has been considered in chapter six,
LJ044-0236|it is unlikely that a reasoning person would plan to attempt to travel from Dallas, Texas to Cuba|it is unlikely that a reasoning person would plan to attempt to travel from Dallas, Texas to Cuba
LJ044-0237|with $13.87 when considerably greater resources were available to him.|with thirteen dollars, eighty-seven cents when considerably greater resources were available to him.
LJ044-0238|The fact that Oswald left behind the funds which might have enabled him to reach Cuba suggests the absence of any plan to try to flee there|The fact that Oswald left behind the funds which might have enabled him to reach Cuba suggests the absence of any plan to try to flee there
LJ044-0239|and raises serious questions as to whether or not he ever expected to escape.|and raises serious questions as to whether or not he ever expected to escape.
LJ045-0001|Report of the President's Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy. The Warren Commission Report. By The President's Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy.|Report of the President's Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy. The Warren Commission Report. By The President's Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy.
LJ045-0002|Chapter 7. Lee Harvey Oswald: Background and Possible Motives, Part 6.|Chapter seven. Lee Harvey Oswald: Background and Possible Motives, Part six.
LJ045-0003|Possible Influence of Anti-Kennedy Sentiment in Dallas|Possible Influence of Anti-Kennedy Sentiment in Dallas
LJ045-0004|It has been suggested that one of the motivating influences operating on Lee Oswald was the atmosphere in the city of Dallas,|It has been suggested that one of the motivating influences operating on Lee Oswald was the atmosphere in the city of Dallas,
LJ045-0005|especially an atmosphere of extreme opposition to President Kennedy that was present in some parts of the Dallas community|especially an atmosphere of extreme opposition to President Kennedy that was present in some parts of the Dallas community
LJ045-0006|and which received publicity there prior to the assassination.|and which received publicity there prior to the assassination.
LJ045-0007|Some of that feeling was expressed in the incident involving then vice-presidential candidate Johnson during the 1960 campaign,|Some of that feeling was expressed in the incident involving then vice-presidential candidate Johnson during the nineteen sixty campaign,
LJ045-0008|in the treatment of Ambassador Adlai Stevenson late in October of 1963|in the treatment of Ambassador Adlai Stevenson late in October of nineteen sixty-three
LJ045-0009|and in the extreme anti-Kennedy newspaper advertisement and handbills that appeared in Dallas at the time of the President's visit there.|and in the extreme anti-Kennedy newspaper advertisement and handbills that appeared in Dallas at the time of the President's visit there.
LJ045-0010|The Commission has found no evidence that the extreme views expressed toward President Kennedy|The Commission has found no evidence that the extreme views expressed toward President Kennedy
LJ045-0011|by some rightwing groups centered in Dallas or any other general atmosphere of hate|by some rightwing groups centered in Dallas or any other general atmosphere of hate
LJ045-0012|or rightwing extremism which may have existed in the city of Dallas had any connection with Oswald's actions on November 22, 1963.|or rightwing extremism which may have existed in the city of Dallas had any connection with Oswald's actions on November twenty-two, nineteen sixty-three.
LJ045-0013|There is, of course, no way to judge what the effect of the general political ferment present in that city might have been, even though Oswald was aware of it.|There is, of course, no way to judge what the effect of the general political ferment present in that city might have been, even though Oswald was aware of it.
LJ045-0014|His awareness is shown by a letter that he wrote to Arnold Johnson of the Communist Party U.S.A.,|His awareness is shown by a letter that he wrote to Arnold Johnson of the Communist Party U.S.A.,
LJ045-0015|which Johnson said he did not receive until after the assassination. The letter said in part, quote,|which Johnson said he did not receive until after the assassination. The letter said in part, quote,
LJ045-0016|On October 23rd, I had attended a ultra-right meeting headed by General Edwin A. Walker, who lives in Dallas.|On October twenty-third, I had attended a ultra-right meeting headed by General Edwin A. Walker, who lives in Dallas.
LJ045-0017|This meeting preceded by one day the attack on A. E. Stevenson at the United Nations Day meeting at which he spoke|This meeting preceded by one day the attack on A. E. Stevenson at the United Nations Day meeting at which he spoke
LJ045-0018|As you can see, political friction between "left" and "right" is very great here.|As you can see, political friction between "left" and "right" is very great here.
LJ045-0019|Could you advise me as to the general view we have on the American Civil Liberties Union? End quote.|Could you advise me as to the general view we have on the American Civil Liberties Union? End quote.
LJ045-0020|In any event, the Commission has been unable to find any credible evidence that Oswald had direct contact or association with|In any event, the Commission has been unable to find any credible evidence that Oswald had direct contact or association with
LJ045-0021|any of the personalities or groups epitomizing or representing the so-called right wing,|any of the personalities or groups epitomizing or representing the so-called right wing,
LJ045-0022|even though he did, as he told Johnson, attend a meeting at which General Walker spoke to approximately 1,300 persons.|even though he did, as he told Johnson, attend a meeting at which General Walker spoke to approximately thirteen hundred persons.
LJ045-0023|Oswald's writings and his reading habits indicate that he had an extreme dislike of the right wing, an attitude most clearly reflected by his attempt|Oswald's writings and his reading habits indicate that he had an extreme dislike of the right wing, an attitude most clearly reflected by his attempt
LJ045-0024|to shoot General Walker.|to shoot General Walker.
LJ045-0025|Relationship With Wife|Relationship With Wife
LJ045-0026|The relations between Lee and Marina Oswald are of great importance in any attempt to understand Oswald's possible motivation.|The relations between Lee and Marina Oswald are of great importance in any attempt to understand Oswald's possible motivation.
LJ045-0027|During the period from Oswald's return from Mexico to the assassination,|During the period from Oswald's return from Mexico to the assassination,
LJ045-0028|he and his wife spent every weekend but one together at the Irving, Texas home of Mrs. Ruth Paine, who was then separated from her husband.|he and his wife spent every weekend but one together at the Irving, Texas home of Mrs. Ruth Paine, who was then separated from her husband.
LJ045-0029|The sole exception was the weekend of November 16 to 17, 1963, the weekend before the assassination,|The sole exception was the weekend of November sixteen to seventeen, nineteen sixty-three, the weekend before the assassination,
LJ045-0030|when his wife asked Oswald not to come to Irving.|when his wife asked Oswald not to come to Irving.
LJ045-0031|During the week, Oswald lived in a roominghouse in Dallas, but he usually called his wife on the telephone twice a day.|During the week, Oswald lived in a roominghouse in Dallas, but he usually called his wife on the telephone twice a day.
LJ045-0032|She testified that after his return from Mexico Oswald, quote, changed for the better.|She testified that after his return from Mexico Oswald, quote, changed for the better.
LJ045-0033|He began to treat me better. He helped me more -- although he always did help. But he was more attentive, end quote.|He began to treat me better. He helped me more -- although he always did help. But he was more attentive, end quote.
LJ045-0034|Marina Oswald attributed that to their living apart and to the imminent birth of their second child.|Marina Oswald attributed that to their living apart and to the imminent birth of their second child.
LJ045-0035|She testified that Oswald, quote, was very happy, end quote, about the birth of the child.|She testified that Oswald, quote, was very happy, end quote, about the birth of the child.
LJ045-0036|While those considerations no doubt had an effect on Oswald's attitude toward his family it would seem that the need for support and sympathy|While those considerations no doubt had an effect on Oswald's attitude toward his family it would seem that the need for support and sympathy
LJ045-0037|after his recent rebuffs in Mexico City|after his recent rebuffs in Mexico City
LJ045-0038|might also have been important to him. It would not have been the first time that Oswald sought closer ties with his family in time of adversity.|might also have been important to him. It would not have been the first time that Oswald sought closer ties with his family in time of adversity.
LJ045-0039|His past relationships with his wife had been stormy, however, and it did not seem that she respected him very much.|His past relationships with his wife had been stormy, however, and it did not seem that she respected him very much.
LJ045-0040|They had been married after a courtship of only about 6 weeks, a part of which Oswald spent in the hospital.|They had been married after a courtship of only about six weeks, a part of which Oswald spent in the hospital.
LJ045-0041|Oswald's diary reports that he married his wife shortly after his proposal of marriage to another girl had been rejected.|Oswald's diary reports that he married his wife shortly after his proposal of marriage to another girl had been rejected.
LJ045-0042|He stated that the other girl rejected him partly because he was an American, a fact that he said she had exploited. He stated that, quote,|He stated that the other girl rejected him partly because he was an American, a fact that he said she had exploited. He stated that, quote,
LJ045-0043|In spite of fact I married Marina to hurt Ella (the girl that had rejected him) I found myself in love with Marina, end quote.|In spite of fact I married Marina to hurt Ella (the girl that had rejected him) I found myself in love with Marina, end quote.
LJ045-0044|Many of the people with whom the Oswalds became acquainted after their arrival in the United States thought that Marina Oswald had married her husband primarily in the hope|Many of the people with whom the Oswalds became acquainted after their arrival in the United States thought that Marina Oswald had married her husband primarily in the hope
LJ045-0045|that she would be able to leave the Soviet Union. Marina Oswald has denied this.|that she would be able to leave the Soviet Union. Marina Oswald has denied this.
LJ045-0046|Marina Oswald expressed one aspect of her husband's attitude toward her when she testified that, quote, Lee wanted me to go to Russia.|Marina Oswald expressed one aspect of her husband's attitude toward her when she testified that, quote, Lee wanted me to go to Russia.
LJ045-0047|and I told him that|and I told him that
LJ045-0048|if he wanted me to go then that meant that he didn't love me, and that in that case what was the idea of coming to the United States in the first place.|if he wanted me to go then that meant that he didn't love me, and that in that case what was the idea of coming to the United States in the first place.
LJ045-0049|Lee would say that it would be better for me if I went to Russia. I did not know why. I did not know what he had in mind.|Lee would say that it would be better for me if I went to Russia. I did not know why. I did not know what he had in mind.
LJ045-0050|He said he loved me but that it would be better for me if I went to Russia, and what he had in mind I don't know. End quote.|He said he loved me but that it would be better for me if I went to Russia, and what he had in mind I don't know. End quote.
LJ045-0051|On the other hand, Oswald objected to the invitation that his wife had received to live with Mrs. Ruth Paine,|On the other hand, Oswald objected to the invitation that his wife had received to live with Mrs. Ruth Paine,
LJ045-0052|which Mrs. Paine had made in part to give her an alternative to returning to the Soviet Union. Marina Oswald wrote to Mrs. Paine that, quote,|which Mrs. Paine had made in part to give her an alternative to returning to the Soviet Union. Marina Oswald wrote to Mrs. Paine that, quote,
LJ045-0053|Many times Oswald has recalled this matter to me and said that I am just waiting for an opportunity to hurt him.|Many times Oswald has recalled this matter to me and said that I am just waiting for an opportunity to hurt him.
LJ045-0054|It has been the cause of many of our arguments. End quote. Oswald claimed that his wife preferred others to him.|It has been the cause of many of our arguments. End quote. Oswald claimed that his wife preferred others to him.
LJ045-0055|He said this about members of the Russian-speaking group in the Dallas-Ft. Worth area, whom she said he tried to forbid her from seeing,|He said this about members of the Russian-speaking group in the Dallas-Ft. Worth area, whom she said he tried to forbid her from seeing,
LJ045-0056|and also about Mrs. Paine.|and also about Mrs. Paine.
LJ045-0057|He specifically made that claim when his wife refused to come to live with him in Dallas as he asked her to do on the evening of November 21,|He specifically made that claim when his wife refused to come to live with him in Dallas as he asked her to do on the evening of November twenty-one,
LJ045-0058|1963.|nineteen sixty-three.
LJ045-0059|The instability of their relations was probably a function of the personalities of both people. Oswald was overbearing in relations with his wife.|The instability of their relations was probably a function of the personalities of both people. Oswald was overbearing in relations with his wife.
LJ045-0060|He apparently attempted to be "the Commander" by dictating many of the details of their married life.|He apparently attempted to be "the Commander" by dictating many of the details of their married life.
LJ045-0061|While Marina Oswald said that her husband wanted her to learn English,|While Marina Oswald said that her husband wanted her to learn English,
LJ045-0062|he made no attempt to help her and there are other indications that he did not want her to learn that language.|he made no attempt to help her and there are other indications that he did not want her to learn that language.
LJ045-0063|Oswald apparently wished to continue practicing his own Russian with her. Lieutenant Martello of the New Orleans police testified|Oswald apparently wished to continue practicing his own Russian with her. Lieutenant Martello of the New Orleans police testified
LJ045-0064|that Oswald stated that he did not speak English in his family because he did not want them to become Americanized.|that Oswald stated that he did not speak English in his family because he did not want them to become Americanized.
LJ045-0065|Marina Oswald's inability to speak English also made it more difficult for her to have an independent existence in this country.|Marina Oswald's inability to speak English also made it more difficult for her to have an independent existence in this country.
LJ045-0066|Oswald struck his wife on occasion,|Oswald struck his wife on occasion,
LJ045-0067|did not want her to drink, smoke or wear cosmetics and generally treated her with lack of respect in the presence of others.|did not want her to drink, smoke or wear cosmetics and generally treated her with lack of respect in the presence of others.
LJ045-0068|The difficulties which Oswald's problems would have caused him in any relationship were probably not reduced by his wife's conduct.|The difficulties which Oswald's problems would have caused him in any relationship were probably not reduced by his wife's conduct.
LJ045-0069|Katherine Ford, with whom Marina Oswald stayed during her separation from her husband in November of 1962,|Katherine Ford, with whom Marina Oswald stayed during her separation from her husband in November of nineteen sixty-two,
LJ045-0070|thought that Marina Oswald was immature in her thinking and partly responsible for the difficulties that the Oswalds were having at that time.|thought that Marina Oswald was immature in her thinking and partly responsible for the difficulties that the Oswalds were having at that time.
LJ045-0071|Mrs. Ford said that Marina Oswald admitted that she provoked Oswald on occasion.|Mrs. Ford said that Marina Oswald admitted that she provoked Oswald on occasion.
LJ045-0072|There can be little doubt that some provocation existed.|There can be little doubt that some provocation existed.
LJ045-0073|Oswald once struck his wife because of a letter which she wrote to a former boyfriend in Russia.|Oswald once struck his wife because of a letter which she wrote to a former boyfriend in Russia.
LJ045-0074|In the letter Marina Oswald stated that her husband had changed a great deal and that she was very lonely in the United States.|In the letter Marina Oswald stated that her husband had changed a great deal and that she was very lonely in the United States.
LJ045-0075|She was, quote, sorry that I had not married him (the Russian boyfriend) instead, that it would have been much easier for me, end quote.|She was, quote, sorry that I had not married him (the Russian boyfriend) instead, that it would have been much easier for me, end quote.
LJ045-0076|The letter fell into Oswald's hands when it was returned to his post office box|The letter fell into Oswald's hands when it was returned to his post office box
LJ045-0077|because of insufficient postage, which apparently resulted from an increase in postal rates of which his wife had been unaware.|because of insufficient postage, which apparently resulted from an increase in postal rates of which his wife had been unaware.
LJ045-0078|Oswald read the letter, but refused to believe that it was sincere, even though his wife insisted to him that it was.|Oswald read the letter, but refused to believe that it was sincere, even though his wife insisted to him that it was.
LJ045-0079|As a result Oswald struck her, as to which she testified, quote,|As a result Oswald struck her, as to which she testified, quote,
LJ045-0080|Generally, I think that was right, for such things that is the right thing to do. There was some grounds for it. End quote.|Generally, I think that was right, for such things that is the right thing to do. There was some grounds for it. End quote.
LJ045-0082|it appears that Marina Oswald also complained that her husband was not able to provide more material things for her.|it appears that Marina Oswald also complained that her husband was not able to provide more material things for her.
LJ045-0083|On that issue George De Mohrenschildt, who was probably as close to the Oswalds as anyone else during their first stay in Dallas,|On that issue George De Mohrenschildt, who was probably as close to the Oswalds as anyone else during their first stay in Dallas,
LJ045-0084|said that, quote, She was annoying him all the time|said that, quote, She was annoying him all the time
LJ045-0085|Why don't you make some money? Poor guy was going out of his mind. We told her she should not annoy him -- poor guy, he is doing his best, "Don't annoy him so much."|Why don't you make some money? Poor guy was going out of his mind. We told her she should not annoy him -- poor guy, he is doing his best, "Don't annoy him so much."
LJ045-0086|The De Mohrenschildts also testified that, quote, right in front, end quote, of Oswald Marina Oswald complained about Oswald's inadequacy as a husband.|The De Mohrenschildts also testified that, quote, right in front, end quote, of Oswald Marina Oswald complained about Oswald's inadequacy as a husband.
LJ045-0087|Mrs. Oswald told another of her friends that Oswald was very cold to her, that they very seldom had sexual relations|Mrs. Oswald told another of her friends that Oswald was very cold to her, that they very seldom had sexual relations
LJ045-0088|and that Oswald, quote, was not a man, end quote. She also told Mrs. Paine that she was not satisfied with her sexual relations with Oswald.|and that Oswald, quote, was not a man, end quote. She also told Mrs. Paine that she was not satisfied with her sexual relations with Oswald.
LJ045-0089|Marina Oswald also ridiculed her husband's political views, thereby tearing down his view of his own importance.|Marina Oswald also ridiculed her husband's political views, thereby tearing down his view of his own importance.
LJ045-0090|He was very much interested in autobiographical works of outstanding statesmen of the United States, to whom his wife thought he compared himself.|He was very much interested in autobiographical works of outstanding statesmen of the United States, to whom his wife thought he compared himself.
LJ045-0091|She said he was different from other people in, quote, At, least his imagination, his fantasy, which was quite unfounded,|She said he was different from other people in, quote, At, least his imagination, his fantasy, which was quite unfounded,
LJ045-0092|as to the fact that he was an outstanding man, end quote.|as to the fact that he was an outstanding man, end quote.
LJ045-0093|She said that she, quote, always tried to point out to him that he was a man like any others who were around us. But he simply could not understand that? End quote.|She said that she, quote, always tried to point out to him that he was a man like any others who were around us. But he simply could not understand that? End quote.
LJ045-0094|Jeanne De Mohrenschildt, however, thought that Marina Oswald, quote, said things that will hurt men's pride, end quote.|Jeanne De Mohrenschildt, however, thought that Marina Oswald, quote, said things that will hurt men's pride, end quote.
LJ045-0095|She said that if she ever spoke to her husband the way Marina Oswald spoke to her husband, quote, we would not last long, end quote.|She said that if she ever spoke to her husband the way Marina Oswald spoke to her husband, quote, we would not last long, end quote.
LJ045-0096|Mrs. De Mohrenschildt thought that Oswald,|Mrs. De Mohrenschildt thought that Oswald,
LJ045-0097|whom she compared to, quote, a puppy dog that everybody kicked, end quote, had a lot of good qualities, in spite of the fact that, quote,|whom she compared to, quote, a puppy dog that everybody kicked, end quote, had a lot of good qualities, in spite of the fact that, quote,
LJ045-0098|Nobody said anything good about him. End quote.|Nobody said anything good about him. End quote.
LJ045-0099|She had, quote, the impression that he was just pushed, pushed, pushed, and she Marina Oswald was probably nagging, nagging, nagging, end quote.|She had, quote, the impression that he was just pushed, pushed, pushed, and she Marina Oswald was probably nagging, nagging, nagging, end quote.
LJ045-0100|She thought that he might not have become involved in the assassination if people had been kinder to him.|She thought that he might not have become involved in the assassination if people had been kinder to him.
LJ045-0101|In spite of these difficulties, however, and in the face of the economic problems that were always with them,|In spite of these difficulties, however, and in the face of the economic problems that were always with them,
LJ045-0102|things apparently went quite smoothly from the time Oswald returned from Mexico until the weekend of November 16 to 17, 1963.|things apparently went quite smoothly from the time Oswald returned from Mexico until the weekend of November sixteen to seventeen, nineteen sixty-three.
LJ045-0103|Mrs. Paine was planning a birthday party for one of her children on that weekend and her husband, Michael, was to be at the house.|Mrs. Paine was planning a birthday party for one of her children on that weekend and her husband, Michael, was to be at the house.
LJ045-0104|Marina Oswald said that she knew her husband did not like Michael Paine and so she asked him not to come out that weekend, even though he wanted to do so.|Marina Oswald said that she knew her husband did not like Michael Paine and so she asked him not to come out that weekend, even though he wanted to do so.
LJ045-0105|She testified that she told him, quote,|She testified that she told him, quote,
LJ045-0106|that he shouldn't come every week, that perhaps it is not convenient for Ruth that the whole family be there, live there, end quote.|that he shouldn't come every week, that perhaps it is not convenient for Ruth that the whole family be there, live there, end quote.
LJ045-0107|She testified that he responded, quote, As you wish. If you don't want me to come, I won't, end quote.|She testified that he responded, quote, As you wish. If you don't want me to come, I won't, end quote.
LJ045-0108|Ruth Paine testified that she heard Marina Oswald tell Oswald about the birthday party.|Ruth Paine testified that she heard Marina Oswald tell Oswald about the birthday party.
LJ045-0109|On Sunday, November 17, 1963,|On Sunday, November seventeen, nineteen sixty-three,
LJ045-0110|Ruth Paine and Marina Oswald decided to call Oswald at the place where he was living, unbeknownst to them, under the name of O. H. Lee.|Ruth Paine and Marina Oswald decided to call Oswald at the place where he was living, unbeknownst to them, under the name of O. H. Lee.
LJ045-0111|They asked for Lee Oswald who was not called to the telephone because he was known by the other name.|They asked for Lee Oswald who was not called to the telephone because he was known by the other name.
LJ045-0112|When Oswald called the next day his wife became very angry about his use of the alias. He said that he used it because, quote,|When Oswald called the next day his wife became very angry about his use of the alias. He said that he used it because, quote,
LJ045-0113|he did not want his landlady to know his real name because she might read in the paper of the fact that he had been in Russia and that he had been questioned, end quote.|he did not want his landlady to know his real name because she might read in the paper of the fact that he had been in Russia and that he had been questioned, end quote.
LJ045-0114|Oswald also said that he did not want the FBI to know where he lived, quote, Because their visits were not very pleasant for him|Oswald also said that he did not want the FBI to know where he lived, quote, Because their visits were not very pleasant for him
LJ045-0115|and he thought that he loses jobs because the FBI visits the place of his employment, end quote.|and he thought that he loses jobs because the FBI visits the place of his employment, end quote.
LJ045-0116|While the facts of his defection had become known in New Orleans as a result of his radio debate with Bringuier,|While the facts of his defection had become known in New Orleans as a result of his radio debate with Bringuier,
LJ045-0117|it would appear to be unlikely that his landlady in Dallas|it would appear to be unlikely that his landlady in Dallas
LJ045-0118|would see anything in the newspaper about his defection, unless he engaged in activities similar to those|would see anything in the newspaper about his defection, unless he engaged in activities similar to those
LJ045-0119|which had led to the disclosure of his defection in New Orleans.|which had led to the disclosure of his defection in New Orleans.
LJ045-0120|Furthermore, even though it appears that at times Oswald was really upset by visits of the FBI,|Furthermore, even though it appears that at times Oswald was really upset by visits of the FBI,
LJ045-0121|it does not appear that he ever lost his job because of its activities, although he may well not have been aware of that fact.|it does not appear that he ever lost his job because of its activities, although he may well not have been aware of that fact.
LJ045-0122|While Oswald's concern about the FBI had some basis in fact, in that FBI agents had interviewed him in the past and had renewed their interest|While Oswald's concern about the FBI had some basis in fact, in that FBI agents had interviewed him in the past and had renewed their interest
LJ045-0123|to some extent after his Fair Play for Cuba Committee activities had become known, he exaggerated their concern for him.|to some extent after his Fair Play for Cuba Committee activities had become known, he exaggerated their concern for him.
LJ045-0124|Marina Oswald thought he did so in order to emphasize his importance.|Marina Oswald thought he did so in order to emphasize his importance.
LJ045-0125|For example, in his letter of November 9, 1963,|For example, in his letter of November nine, nineteen sixty-three,
LJ045-0126|to the Soviet Embassy in Washington, he asked about the entrance visas for which he and his wife had previously applied.|to the Soviet Embassy in Washington, he asked about the entrance visas for which he and his wife had previously applied.
LJ045-0127|He absolved the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City of any blame for his difficulties there. He advised the Washington Embassy|He absolved the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City of any blame for his difficulties there. He advised the Washington Embassy
LJ045-0128|that the FBI was, quote, not now, end quote, interested in his Fair Play for Cuba Committee activities, but noted that the FBI, quote,|that the FBI was, quote, not now, end quote, interested in his Fair Play for Cuba Committee activities, but noted that the FBI, quote,
LJ045-0129|has visited us here in Dallas, Texas, on November 1. Agent James P. Hasty|has visited us here in Dallas, Texas, on November one. Agent James P. Hasty
LJ045-0130|warned me that if I engaged in F.P.C.C. activities in Texas the F.B.I. will again take an interest in me, end quote.|warned me that if I engaged in F.P.C.C. activities in Texas the F.B.I. will again take an interest in me, end quote.
LJ045-0131|Neither Hosty nor any other agent of the FBI spoke to Oswald on any subject from August 10, 1963,|Neither Hosty nor any other agent of the FBI spoke to Oswald on any subject from August ten, nineteen sixty-three,
LJ045-0132|to the time of the assassination.|to the time of the assassination.
LJ045-0133|The claimed warning was one more of Oswald's fabrications.|The claimed warning was one more of Oswald's fabrications.
LJ045-0134|Hosty had come to the Paine residence on November 1 and 5, 1963,|Hosty had come to the Paine residence on November one and five, nineteen sixty-three,
LJ045-0135|but did not issue any such warning or suggest that Marina Oswald defect from the Soviet Union and remain in the United States under FBI protection,|but did not issue any such warning or suggest that Marina Oswald defect from the Soviet Union and remain in the United States under FBI protection,
LJ045-0136|as Oswald went on to say. In Oswald's imagination, quote,|as Oswald went on to say. In Oswald's imagination, quote,
LJ045-0137|I and my wife strongly protested these tactics by the notorious F.B.I., end quote.|I and my wife strongly protested these tactics by the notorious F.B.I., end quote.
LJ045-0138|In fact, his wife testified that she only said that she would prefer not to receive any more visits from the Bureau|In fact, his wife testified that she only said that she would prefer not to receive any more visits from the Bureau
LJ045-0139|because of the, quote, very exciting and disturbing effect, end quote, they had upon her husband, who was not even present at that time.|because of the, quote, very exciting and disturbing effect, end quote, they had upon her husband, who was not even present at that time.
LJ045-0140|The arguments he used to justify his use of the alias suggest that Oswald may have come to think that the whole world was becoming involved|The arguments he used to justify his use of the alias suggest that Oswald may have come to think that the whole world was becoming involved
LJ045-0141|in an increasingly complex conspiracy against him.|in an increasingly complex conspiracy against him.
LJ045-0142|He may have felt he could never tell when the FBI was going to appear on the scene or who else was going to find out about his defection|He may have felt he could never tell when the FBI was going to appear on the scene or who else was going to find out about his defection
LJ045-0143|and use it against him as had been done in New Orleans.|and use it against him as had been done in New Orleans.
LJ045-0144|On the other hand, the concern he expressed about the FBI may have been just another story to support the objective he sought in his letter.|On the other hand, the concern he expressed about the FBI may have been just another story to support the objective he sought in his letter.
LJ045-0145|Those arguments, however, were not persuasive to Marina Oswald,|Those arguments, however, were not persuasive to Marina Oswald,
LJ045-0146|to whom, quote, it was nothing terrible if people were to find out that he had been in Russia, end quote.|to whom, quote, it was nothing terrible if people were to find out that he had been in Russia, end quote.
LJ045-0148|After all, when will all your foolishness come to an end? All of these comedies. First one thing and then another. And now this fictitious name, end quote.|After all, when will all your foolishness come to an end? All of these comedies. First one thing and then another. And now this fictitious name, end quote.
LJ045-0149|She said, quote,|She said, quote,
LJ045-0150|On Monday, November 18, 1963, he called several times, but after I hung up on him and didn't want to talk to him he did not call again.|On Monday, November eighteen, nineteen sixty-three, he called several times, but after I hung up on him and didn't want to talk to him he did not call again.
LJ045-0151|He then arrived on Thursday, November 21, 1963, end quote.|He then arrived on Thursday, November twenty-one, nineteen sixty-three, end quote.
LJ045-0152|The events of that evening can best be appreciated through Marina Oswald's testimony|The events of that evening can best be appreciated through Marina Oswald's testimony
LJ045-0153|Question: Did your husband give any reason for coming home on Thursday?|Question: Did your husband give any reason for coming home on Thursday?
LJ045-0154|Answer: He said that he was lonely because he hadn't come the preceding weekend, and he wanted to make his peace with me.|Answer: He said that he was lonely because he hadn't come the preceding weekend, and he wanted to make his peace with me.
LJ045-0155|Question: Did you say anything to him then?|Question: Did you say anything to him then?
LJ045-0156|Answer: He tried to talk to me but I would not answer him, and he was very upset. Question: Were you upset with him?|Answer: He tried to talk to me but I would not answer him, and he was very upset. Question: Were you upset with him?
LJ045-0157|Answer: I was angry, of course. He was not angry -- he was upset. I was angry. He tried very hard to please me.|Answer: I was angry, of course. He was not angry -- he was upset. I was angry. He tried very hard to please me.
LJ045-0158|He spent quite a bit of time putting away diapers and played with the children on the street.|He spent quite a bit of time putting away diapers and played with the children on the street.
LJ045-0159|Question: How did you indicate to him that you were angry with him? Answer: By not talking to him.|Question: How did you indicate to him that you were angry with him? Answer: By not talking to him.
LJ045-0160|Question: And how did he show that he was upset?|Question: And how did he show that he was upset?
LJ045-0161|He was upset over the fact that I would not answer him.|He was upset over the fact that I would not answer him.
LJ045-0162|He tried to start a conversation with me several times, but I would not answer. And he said that he didn't want me to be angry at him because this upsets him.|He tried to start a conversation with me several times, but I would not answer. And he said that he didn't want me to be angry at him because this upsets him.
LJ045-0163|On that day, he suggested that we rent an apartment in Dallas.|On that day, he suggested that we rent an apartment in Dallas.
LJ045-0164|He said that he was tired of living alone and perhaps the reason for my being so angry was the fact that we were not living together.|He said that he was tired of living alone and perhaps the reason for my being so angry was the fact that we were not living together.
LJ045-0165|That if I want to he would rent an apartment in Dallas tomorrow -- that he didn't want me to remain with Ruth any longer, but wanted me to live with him in Dallas.|That if I want to he would rent an apartment in Dallas tomorrow -- that he didn't want me to remain with Ruth any longer, but wanted me to live with him in Dallas.
LJ045-0166|He repeated this not once but several times, but I refused. And he said that once again I was preferring my friends to him, and that I didn't need him.|He repeated this not once but several times, but I refused. And he said that once again I was preferring my friends to him, and that I didn't need him.
LJ045-0167|Question: What did you say to that?|Question: What did you say to that?
LJ045-0168|Answer: I said it would be better if I remained with Ruth until the holidays, he would come, and we would all meet together.|Answer: I said it would be better if I remained with Ruth until the holidays, he would come, and we would all meet together.
LJ045-0169|That this was better because while he was living alone and I stayed with Ruth, we were spending less money. And I told him to buy me a washing machine, because two children|That this was better because while he was living alone and I stayed with Ruth, we were spending less money. And I told him to buy me a washing machine, because two children
LJ045-0170|it became too difficult to wash by hand.|it became too difficult to wash by hand.
LJ045-0171|What did he say to that?|What did he say to that?
LJ045-0172|Answer: He said he would buy me a washing machine.|Answer: He said he would buy me a washing machine.
LJ045-0173|Question: What did you say to that? Answer:|Question: What did you say to that? Answer:
LJ045-0174|Thank you. That it would be better if he bought something for himself -- that I would manage. End quote. That night Oswald went to bed before his wife retired.|Thank you. That it would be better if he bought something for himself -- that I would manage. End quote. That night Oswald went to bed before his wife retired.
LJ045-0175|She did not speak to him when she joined him there, although she thought that he was still awake.|She did not speak to him when she joined him there, although she thought that he was still awake.
LJ045-0176|The next morning he left for work before anyone else arose.|The next morning he left for work before anyone else arose.
LJ045-0177|For the first time|For the first time
LJ045-0178|he left his wedding ring in a cup on the dresser in his room. He also left $170 in a wallet in one of the dresser drawers.|he left his wedding ring in a cup on the dresser in his room. He also left one hundred seventy dollars in a wallet in one of the dresser drawers.
LJ045-0179|He took with him $13.87 and the long brown package that Frazier and Mrs. Randle saw him carry|He took with him thirteen dollars, eighty-seven cents and the long brown package that Frazier and Mrs. Randle saw him carry
LJ045-0180|and which he was to take to the School Book Depository. The Unanswered Questions.|and which he was to take to the School Book Depository. The Unanswered Questions.
LJ045-0181|No one will ever know what passed through Oswald's mind during the week before November 22, 1963.|No one will ever know what passed through Oswald's mind during the week before November twenty-two, nineteen sixty-three.
LJ045-0182|Instead of returning to Irving on November 15 for his customary weekend visit, he remained in Dallas at his wife's suggestion because of the birthday party.|Instead of returning to Irving on November fifteen for his customary weekend visit, he remained in Dallas at his wife's suggestion because of the birthday party.
LJ045-0183|He had argued with her over the use of an alias and had not called her after that argument, although he usually telephoned once or twice a day.|He had argued with her over the use of an alias and had not called her after that argument, although he usually telephoned once or twice a day.
LJ045-0184|Then on Thursday morning, November 21,|Then on Thursday morning, November twenty-one,
LJ045-0185|he asked Frazier for a ride to Irving that night, stating falsely that he wanted to pick up some curtain rods to put in an apartment.|he asked Frazier for a ride to Irving that night, stating falsely that he wanted to pick up some curtain rods to put in an apartment.
LJ045-0186|He must have planned his attack at the very latest prior to Thursday morning when he spoke to Frazier.|He must have planned his attack at the very latest prior to Thursday morning when he spoke to Frazier.
LJ045-0187|There is, of course, no way to determine the degree to which he was committed to his plan at that time.|There is, of course, no way to determine the degree to which he was committed to his plan at that time.
LJ045-0188|While there is no way to tell when he first began to think specifically of assassinating the President|While there is no way to tell when he first began to think specifically of assassinating the President
LJ045-0189|it should be noted that mention of the Trade Mart as the expected site of the Presidential luncheon|it should be noted that mention of the Trade Mart as the expected site of the Presidential luncheon
LJ045-0190|appeared in The Dallas Times Herald on November 15, 1963.|appeared in The Dallas Times Herald on November fifteen, nineteen sixty-three.
LJ045-0191|The next day that paper announced the final approval of the Trade Mart as the luncheon site and stated that the motorcade, quote,|The next day that paper announced the final approval of the Trade Mart as the luncheon site and stated that the motorcade, quote,
LJ045-0192|apparently will loop through the downtown area, probably on Main Street,|apparently will loop through the downtown area, probably on Main Street,
LJ045-0193|en route from Dallas Love Field, end quote, on its way to the Trade Mart on Stemmons Freeway.|en route from Dallas Love Field, end quote, on its way to the Trade Mart on Stemmons Freeway.
LJ045-0194|Anyone who was familiar with that area of Dallas would have known that the motorcade would probably pass the Texas School Book Depository to get from Main Street|Anyone who was familiar with that area of Dallas would have known that the motorcade would probably pass the Texas School Book Depository to get from Main Street
LJ045-0195|onto the Stemmons Freeway.|onto the Stemmons Freeway.
LJ045-0196|That fact was made precisely clear in subsequent news stories on November 19, 20, and 22.|That fact was made precisely clear in subsequent news stories on November nineteen, twenty, and twenty-two.
LJ045-0197|On November 15, 1963, the same day that his wife told him not to come to Irving, Oswald could have assumed|On November fifteen, nineteen sixty-three, the same day that his wife told him not to come to Irving, Oswald could have assumed
LJ045-0198|that the Presidential motorcade would pass in front of his place of work.|that the Presidential motorcade would pass in front of his place of work.
LJ045-0199|Whether he thought about assassinating the President over the weekend can never be known, but it is reasonably certain|Whether he thought about assassinating the President over the weekend can never be known, but it is reasonably certain
LJ045-0200|that over the weekend he did think about his wife's request that he not come to Irving, which was prompted by the birthday party being held at the Paine home.|that over the weekend he did think about his wife's request that he not come to Irving, which was prompted by the birthday party being held at the Paine home.
LJ045-0201|Oswald had a highly exaggerated sense of his own importance, but he had failed at almost everything he had ever tried to do.|Oswald had a highly exaggerated sense of his own importance, but he had failed at almost everything he had ever tried to do.
LJ045-0202|He had great difficulty in establishing meaningful relations with other people. Except for his family he was completely alone.|He had great difficulty in establishing meaningful relations with other people. Except for his family he was completely alone.
LJ045-0203|Even though he had searched -- in the Marine Corps, in his ideal of communism, in the Soviet Union and in his attempt to get to Cuba|Even though he had searched -- in the Marine Corps, in his ideal of communism, in the Soviet Union and in his attempt to get to Cuba
LJ045-0205|After he returned from his trip to Mexico where his application to go to Cuba had been sharply rejected,|After he returned from his trip to Mexico where his application to go to Cuba had been sharply rejected,
LJ045-0206|it must have appeared to him that he was unable to command even the attention of his family.|it must have appeared to him that he was unable to command even the attention of his family.
LJ045-0207|He could not keep them with him in Dallas, where at least he could see his children whom, several witnesses testified, he seemed to love.|He could not keep them with him in Dallas, where at least he could see his children whom, several witnesses testified, he seemed to love.
LJ045-0208|His family lived with Mrs. Paine, ostensibly because Oswald could not afford to keep an apartment in Dallas,|His family lived with Mrs. Paine, ostensibly because Oswald could not afford to keep an apartment in Dallas,
LJ045-0209|but it was also, at least in part, because his wife did not want to live there with him.|but it was also, at least in part, because his wife did not want to live there with him.
LJ045-0210|Now it appeared that he was not welcome at the Paine home,|Now it appeared that he was not welcome at the Paine home,
LJ045-0211|where he had spent every previous weekend since his return from Mexico and his wife was once again calling into question his judgment,|where he had spent every previous weekend since his return from Mexico and his wife was once again calling into question his judgment,
LJ045-0212|this time concerning his use of an alias.|this time concerning his use of an alias.
LJ045-0213|The conversation on Monday, November 18, 1963,|The conversation on Monday, November eighteen, nineteen sixty-three,
LJ045-0214|ended when Marina Oswald hung up and refused to talk to him. Although he may long before have decided on the course he was to follow|ended when Marina Oswald hung up and refused to talk to him. Although he may long before have decided on the course he was to follow
LJ045-0215|and may have told his wife the things he did on the evening of November 21,|and may have told his wife the things he did on the evening of November twenty-one,
LJ045-0216|1963, merely to disarm her and to provide a justification of sorts,|nineteen sixty-three, merely to disarm her and to provide a justification of sorts,
LJ045-0217|both she and Mrs. Paine thought he had come home to make up after the fight on Monday.|both she and Mrs. Paine thought he had come home to make up after the fight on Monday.
LJ045-0218|Thoughts of his personal difficulties must have been at least partly on his mind when he went to Irving on Thursday night and told his wife that he was lonely,|Thoughts of his personal difficulties must have been at least partly on his mind when he went to Irving on Thursday night and told his wife that he was lonely,
LJ045-0219|that he wanted to make peace with her and bring his family to Dallas where they could live with him again.|that he wanted to make peace with her and bring his family to Dallas where they could live with him again.
LJ045-0220|The Commission does not believe that the relations between Oswald and his wife caused him to assassinate the President.|The Commission does not believe that the relations between Oswald and his wife caused him to assassinate the President.
LJ045-0221|It is unlikely that the motivation was that simple.|It is unlikely that the motivation was that simple.
LJ045-0222|The feelings of hostility and aggression which seem to have played such an important, part in Oswald's life|The feelings of hostility and aggression which seem to have played such an important, part in Oswald's life
LJ045-0223|were part of his character long before he met his wife|were part of his character long before he met his wife
LJ045-0224|and such a favorable opportunity to strike at a figure as great as the President would probably never have come to him again.|and such a favorable opportunity to strike at a figure as great as the President would probably never have come to him again.
LJ045-0225|Oswald's behavior after the assassination throws little light on his motives.|Oswald's behavior after the assassination throws little light on his motives.
LJ045-0226|The fact that he took so little money with him when he left Irving in the morning indicates that he did not expect to get very far from Dallas on his own|The fact that he took so little money with him when he left Irving in the morning indicates that he did not expect to get very far from Dallas on his own
LJ045-0227|and suggests the possibility, as did his note to his wife just prior to the attempt on General Walker, that he did not expect to escape at all.|and suggests the possibility, as did his note to his wife just prior to the attempt on General Walker, that he did not expect to escape at all.
LJ045-0228|On the other hand, he could have traveled some distance with the money he did have and he did return to his room where he obtained his revolver.|On the other hand, he could have traveled some distance with the money he did have and he did return to his room where he obtained his revolver.
LJ045-0229|He then killed Patrolman Tippit when that police officer apparently tried to question him after he had left his roominghouse and he vigorously resisted arrest|He then killed Patrolman Tippit when that police officer apparently tried to question him after he had left his roominghouse and he vigorously resisted arrest
LJ045-0230|when he was finally apprehended in the Texas Theatre. Although it is not fully corroborated by others who were present,|when he was finally apprehended in the Texas Theatre. Although it is not fully corroborated by others who were present,
LJ045-0231|two officers have testified that at the time of his arrest Oswald said something to the effect that, quote, it's all over now, end quote.|two officers have testified that at the time of his arrest Oswald said something to the effect that, quote, it's all over now, end quote.
LJ045-0232|Oswald was overbearing and arrogant throughout much of the time between his arrest and his own death.|Oswald was overbearing and arrogant throughout much of the time between his arrest and his own death.
LJ045-0233|He consistently refused to admit involvement in the assassination or in the killing of Patrolman Tippit.|He consistently refused to admit involvement in the assassination or in the killing of Patrolman Tippit.
LJ045-0234|While he did become enraged at at least one point in his interrogation,|While he did become enraged at at least one point in his interrogation,
LJ045-0235|the testimony of the officers present indicates that he handled himself with considerable composure during his questioning.|the testimony of the officers present indicates that he handled himself with considerable composure during his questioning.
LJ045-0236|He admitted nothing that would damage him but discussed other matters quite freely.|He admitted nothing that would damage him but discussed other matters quite freely.
LJ045-0237|His denials under questioning, which have no probative value in view of the many readily demonstrable lies he told at that time|His denials under questioning, which have no probative value in view of the many readily demonstrable lies he told at that time
LJ045-0238|and in the face of the overwhelming evidence against him|and in the face of the overwhelming evidence against him
LJ045-0239|which has been set forth above, only served to prolong the period during which he was the center of the attention of the entire world.|which has been set forth above, only served to prolong the period during which he was the center of the attention of the entire world.
LJ045-0240|Many factors were undoubtedly involved in Oswald's motivation for the assassination, and the Commission does not believe|Many factors were undoubtedly involved in Oswald's motivation for the assassination, and the Commission does not believe
LJ045-0241|that it can ascribe to him any one motive or group of motives.|that it can ascribe to him any one motive or group of motives.
LJ045-0242|It is apparent, however, that Oswald was moved by an overriding hostility to his environment.|It is apparent, however, that Oswald was moved by an overriding hostility to his environment.
LJ045-0243|He does not appear to have been able to establish meaningful relationships with other people. He was perpetually discontented with the world around him.|He does not appear to have been able to establish meaningful relationships with other people. He was perpetually discontented with the world around him.
LJ045-0244|Long before the assassination he expressed his hatred for American society and acted in protest against it.|Long before the assassination he expressed his hatred for American society and acted in protest against it.
LJ045-0245|Oswald's search for what he conceived to be the perfect society was doomed from the start.|Oswald's search for what he conceived to be the perfect society was doomed from the start.
LJ045-0246|He sought for himself a place in history -- a role as the "great man" who would be recognized as having been in advance of his times.|He sought for himself a place in history -- a role as the "great man" who would be recognized as having been in advance of his times.
LJ045-0247|His commitment to Marxism and communism appears to have been another important factor in his motivation.|His commitment to Marxism and communism appears to have been another important factor in his motivation.
LJ045-0248|He also had demonstrated a capacity to act decisively and without regard to the consequences when such action would further his aims of the moment.|He also had demonstrated a capacity to act decisively and without regard to the consequences when such action would further his aims of the moment.
LJ045-0249|Out of these and the many other factors which may have molded the character of Lee Harvey Oswald|Out of these and the many other factors which may have molded the character of Lee Harvey Oswald
LJ045-0250|there emerged a man capable of assassinating President Kennedy.|there emerged a man capable of assassinating President Kennedy.
LJ046-0001|Report of the President's Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy. The Warren Commission Report. By|Report of the President's Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy. The Warren Commission Report. By
LJ046-0002|The President's Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy. Chapter 8. The Protection of the President. Part 1.|The President's Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy. Chapter eight. The Protection of the President. Part one.
LJ046-0003|In the 100 years since 1865|In the one hundred years since eighteen sixty-five
LJ046-0004|four Presidents of the United States have been assassinated|four Presidents of the United States have been assassinated
LJ046-0005|Abraham Lincoln, James A. Garfield, William McKinley, and John F. Kennedy.|Abraham Lincoln, James A. Garfield, William McKinley, and John F. Kennedy.
LJ046-0006|During this same period there were three other attacks on the life of a President,|During this same period there were three other attacks on the life of a President,
LJ046-0007|a President-elect, and a candidate for the Presidency, which narrowly failed:|a President-elect, and a candidate for the Presidency, which narrowly failed:
LJ046-0008|on Theodore Roosevelt while campaigning in October of 1912; on President-elect Franklin Delano Roosevelt,|on Theodore Roosevelt while campaigning in October of nineteen twelve; on President-elect Franklin Delano Roosevelt,
LJ046-0009|when visiting Miami on February 15, 1933; and on President Harry S. Truman on November 1, 1950,|when visiting Miami on February fifteen, nineteen thirty-three; and on President Harry S. Truman on November one, nineteen fifty,
LJ046-0010|when his temporary residence, Blair House, was attacked by Puerto Rican Nationalists.|when his temporary residence, Blair House, was attacked by Puerto Rican Nationalists.
LJ046-0011|One out of every five Presidents since 1865 has been assassinated;|One out of every five Presidents since eighteen sixty-five has been assassinated;
LJ046-0012|there have been attempts on the lives of one out of every three.|there have been attempts on the lives of one out of every three.
LJ046-0013|Prompted by these dismaying statistics, the Commission has inquired into the problems and methods of Presidential protection in effect|Prompted by these dismaying statistics, the Commission has inquired into the problems and methods of Presidential protection in effect
LJ046-0014|at the time of President Kennedy's assassination.|at the time of President Kennedy's assassination.
LJ046-0015|This study has led the Commission to conclude that the public interest might be served by any contribution it can make to the improvement of protective arrangements.|This study has led the Commission to conclude that the public interest might be served by any contribution it can make to the improvement of protective arrangements.
LJ046-0016|The Commission has not undertaken a comprehensive examination of all facets of this subject;|The Commission has not undertaken a comprehensive examination of all facets of this subject;
LJ046-0017|rather, it has devoted its time and resources to those broader aspects of Presidential protection|rather, it has devoted its time and resources to those broader aspects of Presidential protection
LJ046-0018|to which the events of last November called attention.|to which the events of last November called attention.
LJ046-0019|In this part of its inquiry the Commission has had full access to a major study of all phases of protective activities|In this part of its inquiry the Commission has had full access to a major study of all phases of protective activities
LJ046-0020|prepared by the Secret Service for the Secretary of the Treasury following the assassination. As a result of this study,|prepared by the Secret Service for the Secretary of the Treasury following the assassination. As a result of this study,
LJ046-0021|the Secretary of the Treasury has prepared a planning document dated August 27, 1964,|the Secretary of the Treasury has prepared a planning document dated August twenty-seven, nineteen sixty-four,
LJ046-0022|which recommends additional personnel and facilities to enable the Secret Service to expand its protection capabilities.|which recommends additional personnel and facilities to enable the Secret Service to expand its protection capabilities.
LJ046-0023|The Secretary of the Treasury submitted this planning document on August 31, 1964,|The Secretary of the Treasury submitted this planning document on August thirty-one, nineteen sixty-four,
LJ046-0024|to the Bureau of the Budget for review and approval.|to the Bureau of the Budget for review and approval.
LJ046-0025|This planning document has been made a part of the Commission's published record; the underlying staff and consultants' reports reviewed by the Commission have not,|This planning document has been made a part of the Commission's published record; the underlying staff and consultants' reports reviewed by the Commission have not,
LJ046-0026|since a disclosure of such detailed information relating to protective measures might undermine present methods of protecting the President.|since a disclosure of such detailed information relating to protective measures might undermine present methods of protecting the President.
LJ046-0027|However, all information considered by the Commission which pertains to the protective function as it was carried out in Dallas has been published as part of this report.|However, all information considered by the Commission which pertains to the protective function as it was carried out in Dallas has been published as part of this report.
LJ046-0028|The protection of the President of the United States is an immensely difficult and complex task.|The protection of the President of the United States is an immensely difficult and complex task.
LJ046-0029|It is unlikely that measures can be devised to eliminate entirely the multitude of diverse dangers that may arise,|It is unlikely that measures can be devised to eliminate entirely the multitude of diverse dangers that may arise,
LJ046-0030|particularly when the President is traveling in this country or abroad.|particularly when the President is traveling in this country or abroad.
LJ046-0031|The protective task is further complicated by the reluctance of Presidents to take security precautions which might interfere with the performance of their duties,|The protective task is further complicated by the reluctance of Presidents to take security precautions which might interfere with the performance of their duties,
LJ046-0032|or their desire to have frequent and easy access to the people.|or their desire to have frequent and easy access to the people.
LJ046-0033|The adequacy of existing procedures can fairly be assessed only after full consideration of the difficulty of the protective assignment,|The adequacy of existing procedures can fairly be assessed only after full consideration of the difficulty of the protective assignment,
LJ046-0034|with particular attention to the diverse roles which the President is expected to fill.|with particular attention to the diverse roles which the President is expected to fill.
LJ046-0035|After reviewing this aspect of the matter this chapter will set forth the Commission's conclusions|After reviewing this aspect of the matter this chapter will set forth the Commission's conclusions
LJ046-0036|regarding certain protective measures in force at the time of the Dallas trip and propose recommendations for improvements.|regarding certain protective measures in force at the time of the Dallas trip and propose recommendations for improvements.
LJ046-0037|The nature of the protective assignment.|The nature of the protective assignment.
LJ046-0038|The President is Head of State, Chief Executive, Commander in Chief, and leader of a political party.|The President is Head of State, Chief Executive, Commander in Chief, and leader of a political party.
LJ046-0039|As the ceremonial head of the Government the President must discharge a wide range of public duties, not only in Washington but throughout the land.|As the ceremonial head of the Government the President must discharge a wide range of public duties, not only in Washington but throughout the land.
LJ046-0040|In this role he appears to the American people, in the words of William Howard Taft, as, quote,|In this role he appears to the American people, in the words of William Howard Taft, as, quote,
LJ046-0041|the personal embodiment and representative of their dignity and majesty, end quote.|the personal embodiment and representative of their dignity and majesty, end quote.
LJ046-0042|As Chief Executive, the President controls the exercise of the vast, almost incalculable powers of the executive branch of the Federal Government.|As Chief Executive, the President controls the exercise of the vast, almost incalculable powers of the executive branch of the Federal Government.
LJ046-0043|As Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces, he must maintain ultimate authority over the development and disposition of our military power.|As Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces, he must maintain ultimate authority over the development and disposition of our military power.
LJ046-0044|in accordance with George Washington's maxim that Americans have a government, quote, of accommodation as well as a government of laws, end quote,|in accordance with George Washington's maxim that Americans have a government, quote, of accommodation as well as a government of laws, end quote,
LJ046-0045|it is the President's right and duty to be the active leader of his party, as when he seeks to be reelected or to maintain his party in power.|it is the President's right and duty to be the active leader of his party, as when he seeks to be reelected or to maintain his party in power.
LJ046-0046|In all of these roles the President must go to the people.|In all of these roles the President must go to the people.
LJ046-0047|Exposure of the President to public view through travel among the people of this country is a great and historic tradition of American life.|Exposure of the President to public view through travel among the people of this country is a great and historic tradition of American life.
LJ046-0048|Desired by both the President and the public, it is an indispensable means of communication between the two.|Desired by both the President and the public, it is an indispensable means of communication between the two.
LJ046-0049|More often than not, Presidential journeys have served more than one purpose at the same time: ceremonial,|More often than not, Presidential journeys have served more than one purpose at the same time: ceremonial,
LJ046-0050|administrative, political.|administrative, political.
LJ046-0051|From George Washington to John F. Kennedy, such journeys have been a normal part of the President's activities.|From George Washington to John F. Kennedy, such journeys have been a normal part of the President's activities.
LJ046-0052|To promote nationwide acceptance of his administration Washington made grand tours that served also to excite interest in the Presidency.|To promote nationwide acceptance of his administration Washington made grand tours that served also to excite interest in the Presidency.
LJ046-0053|In recent years, Presidential journeys have been frequent and extensive,|In recent years, Presidential journeys have been frequent and extensive,
LJ046-0054|partly because of the greater speed and comfort of travel and partly because of the greater demands made on the President.|partly because of the greater speed and comfort of travel and partly because of the greater demands made on the President.
LJ046-0055|It is now possible for Presidents to travel the length and breadth of a land far larger than the United States|It is now possible for Presidents to travel the length and breadth of a land far larger than the United States
LJ046-0056|in 1789 in less time than it took George Washington to travel from New York to Mount Vernon|in seventeen eighty-nine in less time than it took George Washington to travel from New York to Mount Vernon
LJ046-0057|or Thomas Jefferson from Washington to Monticello.|or Thomas Jefferson from Washington to Monticello.
LJ046-0058|During his Presidency, Franklin D. Roosevelt made almost 400 journeys and traveled more than 350,000 miles.|During his Presidency, Franklin D. Roosevelt made almost four hundred journeys and traveled more than three hundred fifty thousand miles.
LJ046-0059|Since 1945, Roosevelt's successors have ranged the world,|Since nineteen forty-five, Roosevelt's successors have ranged the world,
LJ046-0060|and their foreign journeys have come to be accepted as normal rather than extraordinary.|and their foreign journeys have come to be accepted as normal rather than extraordinary.
LJ046-0061|John F. Kennedy's journey to Texas in November 1963 was in this tradition.|John F. Kennedy's journey to Texas in November nineteen sixty-three was in this tradition.
LJ046-0062|His friend and Special Assistant Kenneth O'Donnell, who accompanied him on his last visit to Dallas,|His friend and Special Assistant Kenneth O'Donnell, who accompanied him on his last visit to Dallas,
LJ046-0063|stated the President's views of his responsibilities with simplicity and clarity, quote,|stated the President's views of his responsibilities with simplicity and clarity, quote,
LJ046-0064|The President's views of his responsibilities as President of the United States were that he meet the people, that he go out to their homes and see them,|The President's views of his responsibilities as President of the United States were that he meet the people, that he go out to their homes and see them,
LJ046-0065|and allow them to see him, and discuss, if possible, the views of the world as he sees it, the problems of the country as he sees them.|and allow them to see him, and discuss, if possible, the views of the world as he sees it, the problems of the country as he sees them.
LJ046-0066|And he felt that leaving Washington for the President of the United States was a most necessary -- not only for the people, but for the President himself,|And he felt that leaving Washington for the President of the United States was a most necessary -- not only for the people, but for the President himself,
LJ046-0067|that he expose himself to the actual basic problems that were disturbing the American people.|that he expose himself to the actual basic problems that were disturbing the American people.
LJ046-0068|It helped him in his job here, he was able to come back here with a fresh view of many things.|It helped him in his job here, he was able to come back here with a fresh view of many things.
LJ046-0069|I think he felt very strongly that the President ought to get out of Washington, and go meet the people on a regular basis. End quote.|I think he felt very strongly that the President ought to get out of Washington, and go meet the people on a regular basis. End quote.
LJ046-0070|Whatever their purposes Presidential journeys have greatly enlarged and complicated the task of protecting the President.|Whatever their purposes Presidential journeys have greatly enlarged and complicated the task of protecting the President.
LJ046-0071|The Secret Service and the Federal, State, and local law enforcement agencies which cooperate with it,|The Secret Service and the Federal, State, and local law enforcement agencies which cooperate with it,
LJ046-0072|have been confronted in recent years with increasingly difficult problems, created by the greater exposure of the President during his travels|have been confronted in recent years with increasingly difficult problems, created by the greater exposure of the President during his travels
LJ046-0073|and the greater diversity of the audiences he must face in a world torn by conflicting ideologies.|and the greater diversity of the audiences he must face in a world torn by conflicting ideologies.
LJ046-0074|If the sole goal were to protect the life of the President, it could be accomplished with reasonable assurance despite the multiple roles he must play.|If the sole goal were to protect the life of the President, it could be accomplished with reasonable assurance despite the multiple roles he must play.
LJ046-0075|But his very position as representative of the people prevents him from effectively shielding himself from the people.|But his very position as representative of the people prevents him from effectively shielding himself from the people.
LJ046-0076|He cannot and will not take the precautions of a dictator or a sovereign.|He cannot and will not take the precautions of a dictator or a sovereign.
LJ046-0077|Under our system, measures must be sought to afford security without impeding the President's performance of his many functions.|Under our system, measures must be sought to afford security without impeding the President's performance of his many functions.
LJ046-0078|The protection of the President must be thorough but inconspicuous to avoid even the suggestion of a garrison state.|The protection of the President must be thorough but inconspicuous to avoid even the suggestion of a garrison state.
LJ046-0079|The rights of private individuals must not be infringed.|The rights of private individuals must not be infringed.
LJ046-0080|If the protective job is well done, its performance will be evident only in the unexceptional fact of its success.|If the protective job is well done, its performance will be evident only in the unexceptional fact of its success.
LJ046-0081|The men in charge of protecting the President, confronted by complex problems and limited as they are in the measures they may employ,|The men in charge of protecting the President, confronted by complex problems and limited as they are in the measures they may employ,
LJ046-0082|must depend upon the utmost cooperation and understanding from the public and the President.|must depend upon the utmost cooperation and understanding from the public and the President.
LJ046-0083|The problem and the reasonable approach to its solution were ably stated in a memorandum prepared by FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover|The problem and the reasonable approach to its solution were ably stated in a memorandum prepared by FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover
LJ046-0084|for the President soon after the assassination, quote,|for the President soon after the assassination, quote,
LJ046-0085|The degree of security that can be afforded the President of the United States|The degree of security that can be afforded the President of the United States
LJ046-0086|is dependent to a considerable extent upon the degree of contact with the general public desired by the President.|is dependent to a considerable extent upon the degree of contact with the general public desired by the President.
LJ046-0087|Absolute security is neither practical nor possible. An approach to complete security would require the President|Absolute security is neither practical nor possible. An approach to complete security would require the President
LJ046-0088|to operate in a sort of vacuum, isolated from the general public and behind impregnable barriers.|to operate in a sort of vacuum, isolated from the general public and behind impregnable barriers.
LJ046-0089|His travel would be in secret; his public appearances would be behind bulletproof glass. A more practical approach necessitates compromise.|His travel would be in secret; his public appearances would be behind bulletproof glass. A more practical approach necessitates compromise.
LJ046-0090|Any travel, any contact with the general public, involves a calculated risk on the part of the President and the men responsible for his protection.|Any travel, any contact with the general public, involves a calculated risk on the part of the President and the men responsible for his protection.
LJ046-0091|Such risks can be lessened when the President recognizes the security problem,|Such risks can be lessened when the President recognizes the security problem,
LJ046-0092|has confidence in the dedicated Secret Service men who are ready to lay down their lives for him|has confidence in the dedicated Secret Service men who are ready to lay down their lives for him
LJ046-0093|and accepts the necessary security precautions which they recommend.|and accepts the necessary security precautions which they recommend.
LJ046-0094|Many Presidents have been understandably impatient with the security precautions which many years of experience dictate|Many Presidents have been understandably impatient with the security precautions which many years of experience dictate
LJ046-0095|because these precautions reduce the President's privacy and the access to him of the people of the country.|because these precautions reduce the President's privacy and the access to him of the people of the country.
LJ046-0096|Nevertheless the procedures and advice should be accepted if the President wishes to have any security.|Nevertheless the procedures and advice should be accepted if the President wishes to have any security.
LJ046-0097|Evaluation Of Presidential Protection At The Time Of The Assassination Of President Kennedy|Evaluation Of Presidential Protection At The Time Of The Assassination Of President Kennedy
LJ046-0098|The history of Presidential protection shows growing recognition over the years that the job must be done by able, dedicated,|The history of Presidential protection shows growing recognition over the years that the job must be done by able, dedicated,
LJ046-0099|thoroughly professional personnel, using the best technical equipment that can be devised.|thoroughly professional personnel, using the best technical equipment that can be devised.
LJ046-0100|The assassination of President Kennedy demands an examination of the protective measures employed to safe guard him|The assassination of President Kennedy demands an examination of the protective measures employed to safe guard him
LJ046-0101|and an inquiry whether improvements can be made which will reduce the risk of another such tragedy.|and an inquiry whether improvements can be made which will reduce the risk of another such tragedy.
LJ046-0102|This section considers first the means used to locate potential sources of danger to the President in time to take appropriate precautions.|This section considers first the means used to locate potential sources of danger to the President in time to take appropriate precautions.
LJ046-0103|In this connection the information available to Federal agencies about Lee Harvey Oswald|In this connection the information available to Federal agencies about Lee Harvey Oswald
LJ046-0104|is set out and the reasons why this information was not furnished to the Secret Service appraised.|is set out and the reasons why this information was not furnished to the Secret Service appraised.
LJ046-0105|Second, the adequacy of other advance preparations for the security of the President, during his visit to Dallas,|Second, the adequacy of other advance preparations for the security of the President, during his visit to Dallas,
LJ046-0106|largely measures taken by the Secret Service, is considered.|largely measures taken by the Secret Service, is considered.
LJ046-0107|Finally, the performance of those charged with the immediate responsibility of protecting the President on November 22 is reviewed.|Finally, the performance of those charged with the immediate responsibility of protecting the President on November twenty-two is reviewed.
LJ046-0108|Intelligence Functions Relating to Presidential Protection at the Time of the Dallas Trip|Intelligence Functions Relating to Presidential Protection at the Time of the Dallas Trip
LJ046-0109|A basic element of Presidential protection|A basic element of Presidential protection
LJ046-0110|is the identification and elimination of possible sources of danger to the President before the danger becomes actual.|is the identification and elimination of possible sources of danger to the President before the danger becomes actual.
LJ046-0111|The Secret Service has attempted to perform this function through the activities of its Protective Research Section|The Secret Service has attempted to perform this function through the activities of its Protective Research Section
LJ046-0112|and requests to other agencies, Federal and local, for useful information.|and requests to other agencies, Federal and local, for useful information.
LJ046-0113|The Commission has concluded that at the time of the assassination|The Commission has concluded that at the time of the assassination
LJ046-0114|the arrangements relied upon by the Secret Service to perform this function were seriously deficient.|the arrangements relied upon by the Secret Service to perform this function were seriously deficient.
LJ046-0115|Adequacy of preventive intelligence operations of the Secret Service.|Adequacy of preventive intelligence operations of the Secret Service.
LJ046-0116|The main job of the Protective Research Section (PRS)|The main job of the Protective Research Section (PRS)
LJ046-0117|is to collect, process, and evaluate information about persons or groups who may be a danger to the President.|is to collect, process, and evaluate information about persons or groups who may be a danger to the President.
LJ046-0118|In addition to this function, PRS is responsible for such tasks|In addition to this function, PRS is responsible for such tasks
LJ046-0119|as obtaining clearance of some categories of White House employees and all tradesmen who service the White House,|as obtaining clearance of some categories of White House employees and all tradesmen who service the White House,
LJ046-0120|the security processing of gifts sent to the President, and technical inspections against covert listening devices.|the security processing of gifts sent to the President, and technical inspections against covert listening devices.
LJ046-0121|At the time of the assassination PRS was a very small group, comprised of 12 specialists and 3 clerks.|At the time of the assassination PRS was a very small group, comprised of twelve specialists and three clerks.
LJ046-0122|Many persons call themselves to the attention of PRS by attempting to visit, the President|Many persons call themselves to the attention of PRS by attempting to visit, the President
LJ046-0123|for bizarre reasons or by writing or in some other way attempting to communicate with him in a threatening or abusive manner|for bizarre reasons or by writing or in some other way attempting to communicate with him in a threatening or abusive manner
LJ046-0124|or with undue persistence.|or with undue persistence.
LJ046-0125|Robert I. Bouck, special agent in charge of PRS,|Robert I. Bouck, special agent in charge of PRS,
LJ046-0126|estimated that most of the material received by his office originated in this fashion|estimated that most of the material received by his office originated in this fashion
LJ046-0127|or from the occasional investigations initiated by the Secret Service,|or from the occasional investigations initiated by the Secret Service,
LJ046-0128|while the balance was furnished to PRS by other Federal agencies, with primary source being the FBI.|while the balance was furnished to PRS by other Federal agencies, with primary source being the FBI.
LJ046-0129|The total volume of information received by PRS has risen steadily.|The total volume of information received by PRS has risen steadily.
LJ046-0130|In 1943 PRS received approximately 9,000 items of information;|In nineteen forty-three PRS received approximately nine thousand items of information;
LJ046-0131|in 1953 this had increased to more than 17,000 items;|in nineteen fifty-three this had increased to more than seventeen thousand items;
LJ046-0132|in 1963 the total exceeded 32,000 items.|in nineteen sixty-three the total exceeded thirty-two thousand items.
LJ046-0133|Since many items may pertain to a single case, these figures do not show the caseload.|Since many items may pertain to a single case, these figures do not show the caseload.
LJ046-0134|In the period from November 1961 to November 1963,|In the period from November nineteen sixty-one to November nineteen sixty-three,
LJ046-0135|PRS received items in 8,709 cases.|PRS received items in eight thousand, seven hundred nine cases.
LJ046-0136|Before the assassination of President Kennedy,|Before the assassination of President Kennedy,
LJ046-0137|PRS expressed its interest in receiving information on suspects in very general terms. For example,|PRS expressed its interest in receiving information on suspects in very general terms. For example,
LJ046-0138|PRS instructed the White House mailroom, a source of much PRS data,|PRS instructed the White House mailroom, a source of much PRS data,
LJ046-0139|to refer all communications on identified existing cases and, in addition,|to refer all communications on identified existing cases and, in addition,
LJ046-0140|any communication, quote, that in any way indicates anyone may have possible intention of harming the President, end quote.|any communication, quote, that in any way indicates anyone may have possible intention of harming the President, end quote.
LJ046-0141|Slightly more specific criteria were established for PRS personnel processing White House mail referred by the White House mailroom,|Slightly more specific criteria were established for PRS personnel processing White House mail referred by the White House mailroom,
LJ046-0142|but again the standards were very general.|but again the standards were very general.
LJ046-0143|These instructions to PRS personnel appear to be the only instance where an effort was made to reduce the criteria to writing.|These instructions to PRS personnel appear to be the only instance where an effort was made to reduce the criteria to writing.
LJ046-0144|When requested to provide a specific statement of the standards employed by PRS in deciding what information to seek and retain,|When requested to provide a specific statement of the standards employed by PRS in deciding what information to seek and retain,
LJ046-0145|The Secret Service responded, quote,|The Secret Service responded, quote,
LJ046-0146|The criteria in effect prior to November 22, 1963, for determining whether to accept material for the PRS general files|The criteria in effect prior to November twenty-two, nineteen sixty-three, for determining whether to accept material for the PRS general files
LJ046-0147|were broad and flexible. All material is and was desired, accepted, and filed if it indicated or tended to indicate|were broad and flexible. All material is and was desired, accepted, and filed if it indicated or tended to indicate
LJ046-0148|that the safety of the President is or might be in danger, either at the present or in the future.|that the safety of the President is or might be in danger, either at the present or in the future.
LJ046-0149|There are many actions, situations, and incidents that may indicate such potential danger. Some are specific, such as threats;|There are many actions, situations, and incidents that may indicate such potential danger. Some are specific, such as threats;
LJ046-0150|danger may be implied from others, such as membership or activity in an organization which believes in assassination as a political weapon.|danger may be implied from others, such as membership or activity in an organization which believes in assassination as a political weapon.
LJ046-0151|All material received by PRS was separately screened|All material received by PRS was separately screened
LJ046-0152|and a determination made as to whether the information might indicate possible harm to the President.|and a determination made as to whether the information might indicate possible harm to the President.
LJ046-0153|If the material was evaluated|If the material was evaluated
LJ046-0154|as indicating some potential danger to the President -- no matter how small -- it was indexed in the general PRS files|as indicating some potential danger to the President -- no matter how small -- it was indexed in the general PRS files
LJ046-0155|under the name of the individual or group of individuals to whom that material related. End quote.|under the name of the individual or group of individuals to whom that material related. End quote.
LJ046-0156|The general files of PRS consist of folders on individuals, card indexed by name.|The general files of PRS consist of folders on individuals, card indexed by name.
LJ046-0157|The files are manually maintained, without use of any automatic data-processing techniques.|The files are manually maintained, without use of any automatic data-processing techniques.
LJ046-0158|At the time of the assassination, the active PRS general files contained approximately 50,000 cases|At the time of the assassination, the active PRS general files contained approximately fifty thousand cases
LJ046-0159|accumulated over a 20-year period, some of which included more than one individual.|accumulated over a twenty-year period, some of which included more than one individual.
LJ046-0160|A case file was established if the information available suggested that the subject might be a danger to the President.|A case file was established if the information available suggested that the subject might be a danger to the President.
LJ046-0161|Many of these cases were not investigated by PRS.|Many of these cases were not investigated by PRS.
LJ046-0162|The case file served merely as a repository for information until enough had accumulated to warrant an investigation.|The case file served merely as a repository for information until enough had accumulated to warrant an investigation.
LJ046-0163|During the period November 1961 to November 1963,|During the period November nineteen sixty-one to November nineteen sixty-three,
LJ046-0164|PRS investigated 34 newly established or reactivated cases concerning residents of Texas.|PRS investigated thirty-four newly established or reactivated cases concerning residents of Texas.
LJ046-0165|Most of these cases involved persons who used threatening language in communications to or about the President.|Most of these cases involved persons who used threatening language in communications to or about the President.
LJ046-0166|An additional 115 cases concerning Texas residents were established but not investigated.|An additional one hundred fifteen cases concerning Texas residents were established but not investigated.
LJ046-0167|When PRS learns of an individual whose conduct warrants scrutiny, it requests an investigation by the closest Secret Service field office,|When PRS learns of an individual whose conduct warrants scrutiny, it requests an investigation by the closest Secret Service field office,
LJ046-0168|of which there are 65 throughout the country.|of which there are sixty-five throughout the country.
LJ046-0169|If the field office determines that the case should be subject to continuing review, PRS establishes a file|If the field office determines that the case should be subject to continuing review, PRS establishes a file
LJ046-0170|which requires a checkup at least, every 6 months.|which requires a checkup at least, every six months.
LJ046-0171|This might involve a personal interview or interviews with members of the person's household. Wherever possible,|This might involve a personal interview or interviews with members of the person's household. Wherever possible,
LJ046-0172|the Secret Service arranges for the family and friends of the individual, and local law enforcement officials,|the Secret Service arranges for the family and friends of the individual, and local law enforcement officials,
LJ046-0173|to advise the field office if the subject displays signs of increased danger or plans to leave his home area.|to advise the field office if the subject displays signs of increased danger or plans to leave his home area.
LJ046-0174|At the time of the assassination there were approximately 400 persons throughout the country who were subject to periodic review.|At the time of the assassination there were approximately four hundred persons throughout the country who were subject to periodic review.
LJ046-0175|If PRS concludes after investigation|If PRS concludes after investigation
LJ046-0176|that an individual presents a significant danger to the life of the President, his name is placed in a "trip index file"|that an individual presents a significant danger to the life of the President, his name is placed in a "trip index file"
LJ046-0177|which is maintained on a geographical field office basis.|which is maintained on a geographical field office basis.
LJ046-0178|At the time of the assassination the names of about 100 persons were in this index, all of whom were included in the group of 400|At the time of the assassination the names of about one hundred persons were in this index, all of whom were included in the group of four hundred
LJ046-0179|being reviewed regularly.|being reviewed regularly.
LJ046-0180|PRS also maintains an album of photographs and descriptions of about 12 to 15 individuals who are regarded as clear risks to the President|PRS also maintains an album of photographs and descriptions of about twelve to fifteen individuals who are regarded as clear risks to the President
LJ046-0181|and who do not have a fixed place of residence. Members of the White House detail of the Secret Service have copies of this album.|and who do not have a fixed place of residence. Members of the White House detail of the Secret Service have copies of this album.
LJ046-0182|Individuals who are regarded as dangerous to the President|Individuals who are regarded as dangerous to the President
LJ046-0183|and who are in penal or hospital custody are listed only in the general files of PRS,|and who are in penal or hospital custody are listed only in the general files of PRS,
LJ046-0184|but there is a system for the immediate notification of the Secret Service by the confining institution when a subject is released or escapes.|but there is a system for the immediate notification of the Secret Service by the confining institution when a subject is released or escapes.
LJ046-0185|PRS attempts to eliminate serious risks by hospitalization or, where necessary,|PRS attempts to eliminate serious risks by hospitalization or, where necessary,
LJ046-0186|the prosecution of persons who have committed an offense such as threatening the President.|the prosecution of persons who have committed an offense such as threatening the President.
LJ046-0187|In June 1964 PRS had arrangements to be notified about the release or escape of approximately 1,000 persons.|In June nineteen sixty-four PRS had arrangements to be notified about the release or escape of approximately one thousand persons.
LJ046-0188|In summary, at the time of the assassination|In summary, at the time of the assassination
LJ046-0189|PRS had received, over a 20-year period, basic information on some 50,000 cases;|PRS had received, over a twenty-year period, basic information on some fifty thousand cases;
LJ046-0190|it had arrangements to be notified about release from confinement in roughly 1,000 cases;|it had arrangements to be notified about release from confinement in roughly one thousand cases;
LJ046-0191|it had established periodic regular review of the status of 400 individuals;|it had established periodic regular review of the status of four hundred individuals;
LJ046-0192|it regarded approximately 100 of these 400 cases as serious risks|it regarded approximately one hundred of these four hundred cases as serious risks
LJ046-0194|Members of the White House detail were expected to familiarize themselves with the descriptions and photographs of the highest risk cases.|Members of the White House detail were expected to familiarize themselves with the descriptions and photographs of the highest risk cases.
LJ046-0195|The cases subject to periodic review and the 100 or so cases in the higher risk category|The cases subject to periodic review and the one hundred or so cases in the higher risk category
LJ046-0196|were filed on a geographic basis, and could conveniently be reviewed by a Secret Service agent preparing for a Presidential trip|were filed on a geographic basis, and could conveniently be reviewed by a Secret Service agent preparing for a Presidential trip
LJ046-0197|to a particular part of the country. These were the files reviewed by PRS on November 8, 1963,|to a particular part of the country. These were the files reviewed by PRS on November eight, nineteen sixty-three,
LJ046-0198|at the request of Special Agent Lawson, advance agent for President Kennedy's trip to Dallas.|at the request of Special Agent Lawson, advance agent for President Kennedy's trip to Dallas.
LJ046-0199|The general files of PRS were not indexed by geographic location and were of little use in preparing for a Presidential visit to a specific locality.|The general files of PRS were not indexed by geographic location and were of little use in preparing for a Presidential visit to a specific locality.
LJ046-0200|Secret Service requests to other agencies for intelligence information|Secret Service requests to other agencies for intelligence information
LJ046-0201|were no more specific than the broad and general instructions its own agents and the White House mailroom.|were no more specific than the broad and general instructions its own agents and the White House mailroom.
LJ046-0202|The head of PRS testified that the Secret Service requested other agencies to provide, quote,|The head of PRS testified that the Secret Service requested other agencies to provide, quote,
LJ046-0203|any and all information that they may come in contact with that would indicate danger to the President, end quote.|any and all information that they may come in contact with that would indicate danger to the President, end quote.
LJ046-0204|These requests were communicated in writing by the Secret Service; rather, the Service depended on the personal liaison maintained by PRS|These requests were communicated in writing by the Secret Service; rather, the Service depended on the personal liaison maintained by PRS
LJ046-0205|with the headquarters of the Federal intelligence agencies, particularly the FBI,|with the headquarters of the Federal intelligence agencies, particularly the FBI,
LJ046-0206|and at the working level with personnel of the field offices of the various agencies. The Service frequently participated|and at the working level with personnel of the field offices of the various agencies. The Service frequently participated
LJ046-0207|in the training programs of other law enforcement agencies, and agents from other agencies attended the regular Secret Service training schools.|in the training programs of other law enforcement agencies, and agents from other agencies attended the regular Secret Service training schools.
LJ046-0208|Presidential protection was an important topic in these training programs.|Presidential protection was an important topic in these training programs.
LJ046-0209|In the absence of more specific instructions, other Federal agencies interpreted the Secret Service's informal requests|In the absence of more specific instructions, other Federal agencies interpreted the Secret Service's informal requests
LJ046-0210|to relate principally to overt threats to harm the President or other specific manifestations of hostility.|to relate principally to overt threats to harm the President or other specific manifestations of hostility.
LJ046-0211|For example, at the time of the assassination, the FBI Handbook, which is in the possession of every Bureau special agent, provided, quote,|For example, at the time of the assassination, the FBI Handbook, which is in the possession of every Bureau special agent, provided, quote,
LJ046-0212|Threats against the President of the U.S.,|Threats against the President of the U.S.,
LJ046-0213|members of his immediate family, the President-elect, and the Vice-President. Investigation of threats against the President of the United States,|members of his immediate family, the President-elect, and the Vice-President. Investigation of threats against the President of the United States,
LJ046-0214|members of his immediate family, the President-Elect, and the Vice-President is within the exclusive jurisdiction of the U.S. Secret Service.|members of his immediate family, the President-Elect, and the Vice-President is within the exclusive jurisdiction of the U.S. Secret Service.
LJ046-0215|Any information indicating the possibility of an attempt against the person or safety of the President,|Any information indicating the possibility of an attempt against the person or safety of the President,
LJ046-0216|members of the immediate family of the President, the President-Elect or the Vice-President|members of the immediate family of the President, the President-Elect or the Vice-President
LJ046-0217|must be referred immediately by the most expeditious means of communication to the nearest office of the U.S. Secret Service.|must be referred immediately by the most expeditious means of communication to the nearest office of the U.S. Secret Service.
LJ046-0218|Advise the Bureau at the same time by teletype of the information so furnished to the Secret Service and the fact that it has been so disseminated.|Advise the Bureau at the same time by teletype of the information so furnished to the Secret Service and the fact that it has been so disseminated.
LJ046-0219|The above action should be taken without delay in order to attempt to verify the information and no evaluation of the information should be attempted.|The above action should be taken without delay in order to attempt to verify the information and no evaluation of the information should be attempted.
LJ046-0220|When the threat is in the form of a written communication, give a copy to local Secret Service and forward the original to the Bureau|When the threat is in the form of a written communication, give a copy to local Secret Service and forward the original to the Bureau
LJ046-0221|where it will be made available to Secret Service headquarters in Washington.|where it will be made available to Secret Service headquarters in Washington.
LJ046-0222|The referral of the copy to local Secret Service should not delay the immediate referral of the information by the fastest available means of communication|The referral of the copy to local Secret Service should not delay the immediate referral of the information by the fastest available means of communication
LJ046-0223|to Secret Service locally, end quote.|to Secret Service locally, end quote.
LJ046-0224|The State Department advised the Secret Service of all crank and threat letter mail|The State Department advised the Secret Service of all crank and threat letter mail
LJ046-0225|or crank visitors and furnished reports concerning any assassination or attempted assassination of a ruler or other major official anywhere in the world.|or crank visitors and furnished reports concerning any assassination or attempted assassination of a ruler or other major official anywhere in the world.
LJ046-0226|The several military intelligence agencies reported crank mail and similar threats involving the President.|The several military intelligence agencies reported crank mail and similar threats involving the President.
LJ046-0227|According to Special Agent in Charge Bouck,|According to Special Agent in Charge Bouck,
LJ046-0228|the Secret Service had no standard procedure for the systematic review of its requests for and receipt of information from other Federal agencies.|the Secret Service had no standard procedure for the systematic review of its requests for and receipt of information from other Federal agencies.
LJ046-0229|The Commission believes that the facilities and procedures of the Protective Research Section of the Secret Service|The Commission believes that the facilities and procedures of the Protective Research Section of the Secret Service
LJ046-0230|prior to November 22, 1963, were inadequate.|prior to November twenty-two, nineteen sixty-three, were inadequate.
LJ046-0231|Its efforts appear to have been too largely directed at the "crank" threat.|Its efforts appear to have been too largely directed at the "crank" threat.
LJ046-0232|Although the Service recognized that its advance preventive measures must encompass more than these most obvious dangers,|Although the Service recognized that its advance preventive measures must encompass more than these most obvious dangers,
LJ046-0233|it made little effort to identify factors in the activities of an individual|it made little effort to identify factors in the activities of an individual
LJ046-0234|or an organized group, other than specific threats, which suggested a source of danger against which timely precautions could be taken.|or an organized group, other than specific threats, which suggested a source of danger against which timely precautions could be taken.
LJ046-0235|Except for its special "trip index" file of 400 names,|Except for its special "trip index" file of four hundred names,
LJ046-0236|none of the cases in the PRS general files was available for systematic review on a geographic basis when the President planned a particular trip.|none of the cases in the PRS general files was available for systematic review on a geographic basis when the President planned a particular trip.
LJ046-0237|As reported in chapter 2, when the special file was reviewed on November 8,|As reported in chapter two, when the special file was reviewed on November eight,
LJ046-0238|it contained the names of no persons from the entire Dallas-Fort Worth area,|it contained the names of no persons from the entire Dallas-Fort Worth area,
LJ046-0239|notwithstanding the fact that Ambassador Stevenson had been abused by pickets in Dallas less than a month before.|notwithstanding the fact that Ambassador Stevenson had been abused by pickets in Dallas less than a month before.
LJ046-0240|Bouck explained the failure to try to identify the individuals involved in the Stevenson incident after it occurred on the ground that|Bouck explained the failure to try to identify the individuals involved in the Stevenson incident after it occurred on the ground that
LJ046-0241|PRS required a more direct indication of a threat to the President, and that there was no such indication until the President's scheduled visit to that area became known.|PRS required a more direct indication of a threat to the President, and that there was no such indication until the President's scheduled visit to that area became known.
LJ046-0242|Such an approach seriously undermines the precautionary nature of PRS work;|Such an approach seriously undermines the precautionary nature of PRS work;
LJ046-0243|if the presence in Dallas of the Stevenson pickets might have created a danger for the President on a visit to that city,|if the presence in Dallas of the Stevenson pickets might have created a danger for the President on a visit to that city,
LJ046-0245|Other agencies occasionally provided information to the Secret Service concerning potentially dangerous political groups.|Other agencies occasionally provided information to the Secret Service concerning potentially dangerous political groups.
LJ046-0246|This was done in the case of the Nationalist Party of Puerto Rico, for example, but only after members of the group had resorted to political violence.|This was done in the case of the Nationalist Party of Puerto Rico, for example, but only after members of the group had resorted to political violence.
LJ046-0247|However, the vague requests for information which the Secret Service made|However, the vague requests for information which the Secret Service made
LJ046-0248|to Federal intelligence and law enforcement agencies were not well designed to elicit information from them|to Federal intelligence and law enforcement agencies were not well designed to elicit information from them
LJ046-0249|about persons other than those who were obvious threats to the President.|about persons other than those who were obvious threats to the President.
LJ046-0250|The requests shifted the responsibility for evaluating difficult cases from the Service, the agency most responsible for performing that task,|The requests shifted the responsibility for evaluating difficult cases from the Service, the agency most responsible for performing that task,
LJ046-0251|to the other agencies. No specific guidance was provided.|to the other agencies. No specific guidance was provided.
LJ046-0252|Although the CIA had on file requests from the Treasury Department for information on the counterfeiting of U.S. currency and certain smuggling matters,|Although the CIA had on file requests from the Treasury Department for information on the counterfeiting of U.S. currency and certain smuggling matters,
LJ046-0253|it had no written specification of intelligence information collected by CIA abroad which was desired by the Secret Service|it had no written specification of intelligence information collected by CIA abroad which was desired by the Secret Service
LJ046-0254|in advance of Presidential trips outside the United States.|in advance of Presidential trips outside the United States.
LJ047-0001|Report of the President's Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy. The Warren Commission Report. By The President's Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy.|Report of the President's Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy. The Warren Commission Report. By The President's Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy.
LJ047-0002|Chapter 8. The Protection of the President. Part 2.|Chapter eight. The Protection of the President. Part two.
LJ047-0003|Information known about Lee Harvey Oswald prior to the assassination.|Information known about Lee Harvey Oswald prior to the assassination.
LJ047-0004|No information concerning Lee Harvey Oswald appeared in PRS files before the President's trip to Dallas.|No information concerning Lee Harvey Oswald appeared in PRS files before the President's trip to Dallas.
LJ047-0005|Oswald was known to other Federal agencies with which the Secret Service maintained intelligence liaison.|Oswald was known to other Federal agencies with which the Secret Service maintained intelligence liaison.
LJ047-0006|The FBI had been interested in him, to some degree at least, since the time of his defection in October 1959.|The FBI had been interested in him, to some degree at least, since the time of his defection in October nineteen fifty-nine.
LJ047-0007|It had interviewed him twice shortly after his return to the United States, again a year later at his request|It had interviewed him twice shortly after his return to the United States, again a year later at his request
LJ047-0008|and was investigating him at the time of the assassination. The Commission has taken the testimony of Bureau agents|and was investigating him at the time of the assassination. The Commission has taken the testimony of Bureau agents
LJ047-0009|who interviewed Oswald after his return from the Soviet Union and prior to November 22, 1963,|who interviewed Oswald after his return from the Soviet Union and prior to November twenty-two, nineteen sixty-three,
LJ047-0010|the agent who was assigned his case at the time of the assassination, the Director of the FBI,|the agent who was assigned his case at the time of the assassination, the Director of the FBI,
LJ047-0011|and the Assistant to the Director in charge of all investigative activities under the Director and Associate Director. In addition,|and the Assistant to the Director in charge of all investigative activities under the Director and Associate Director. In addition,
LJ047-0012|the Director and Deputy Director for Plans of the CIA testified concerning that Agency's limited knowledge of Oswald before the assassination.|the Director and Deputy Director for Plans of the CIA testified concerning that Agency's limited knowledge of Oswald before the assassination.
LJ047-0013|Finally, the Commission has reviewed the complete files on Oswald, as they existed at the time of the assassination, of the Department of State,|Finally, the Commission has reviewed the complete files on Oswald, as they existed at the time of the assassination, of the Department of State,
LJ047-0014|the Office of Naval Intelligence, the FBI and the CIA. The information known to the FBI is summarized below.|the Office of Naval Intelligence, the FBI and the CIA. The information known to the FBI is summarized below.
LJ047-0015|From defection to return to Fort Worth.|From defection to return to Fort Worth.
LJ047-0016|The FBI opened a file on Oswald in October 1959, when news reports appeared of his defection to the Soviet Union.|The FBI opened a file on Oswald in October nineteen fifty-nine, when news reports appeared of his defection to the Soviet Union.
LJ047-0017|The file was opened, quote,|The file was opened, quote,
LJ047-0018|for the purpose of correlating information inasmuch as he was considered a possible security risk in the event he returned to this country, end quote.|for the purpose of correlating information inasmuch as he was considered a possible security risk in the event he returned to this country, end quote.
LJ047-0019|Oswald's defection was also the occasion for the opening of files by the Department of State, CIA, and the Office of Naval Intelligence.|Oswald's defection was also the occasion for the opening of files by the Department of State, CIA, and the Office of Naval Intelligence.
LJ047-0020|Until April 1960, FBI activity consisted of placing in Oswald's file|Until April nineteen sixty, FBI activity consisted of placing in Oswald's file
LJ047-0021|information regarding his relations with the U.S. Embassy in Moscow and background data relating largely to his prior military service,|information regarding his relations with the U.S. Embassy in Moscow and background data relating largely to his prior military service,
LJ047-0022|provided by other agencies.|provided by other agencies.
LJ047-0023|In April 1960, Mrs. Marguerite Oswald and Robert Oswald were interviewed|In April nineteen sixty, Mrs. Marguerite Oswald and Robert Oswald were interviewed
LJ047-0024|in the course of a routine FBI investigation of transfers of small sums of money from Mrs. Oswald to her son in Russia.|in the course of a routine FBI investigation of transfers of small sums of money from Mrs. Oswald to her son in Russia.
LJ047-0025|During the next 2 years the FBI continued to accumulate information,|During the next two years the FBI continued to accumulate information,
LJ047-0026|and kept itself informed on Oswald's status by periodic reviews of State Department and Office of Naval Intelligence files.|and kept itself informed on Oswald's status by periodic reviews of State Department and Office of Naval Intelligence files.
LJ047-0027|In this way, it learned that when Oswald had arrived in the Soviet Union|In this way, it learned that when Oswald had arrived in the Soviet Union
LJ047-0028|he had attempted to renounce his U.S. citizenship and applied for Soviet citizenship,|he had attempted to renounce his U.S. citizenship and applied for Soviet citizenship,
LJ047-0029|had described himself as a Marxist, had said he would give the Soviet Union any useful information he had acquired|had described himself as a Marxist, had said he would give the Soviet Union any useful information he had acquired
LJ047-0030|as a marine radar technician and had displayed an arrogant and aggressive attitude at the U.S. Embassy;|as a marine radar technician and had displayed an arrogant and aggressive attitude at the U.S. Embassy;
LJ047-0031|it learned also that Oswald had been discharged from the Marine Corps Reserve as undesirable in August 1960.|it learned also that Oswald had been discharged from the Marine Corps Reserve as undesirable in August nineteen sixty.
LJ047-0032|In June 1962, the Bureau was advised by the Department of State of Oswald's plan to return to the United States.|In June nineteen sixty-two, the Bureau was advised by the Department of State of Oswald's plan to return to the United States.
LJ047-0033|The Bureau made arrangements to be advised by immigration authorities of his return,|The Bureau made arrangements to be advised by immigration authorities of his return,
LJ047-0034|and instructed the Dallas office to interview him when he got back to determine whether he had been recruited by a Soviet intelligence service.|and instructed the Dallas office to interview him when he got back to determine whether he had been recruited by a Soviet intelligence service.
LJ047-0035|Oswald's file at the Department of State Passport Office was reviewed in June 1962.|Oswald's file at the Department of State Passport Office was reviewed in June nineteen sixty-two.
LJ047-0036|It revealed his letter of January 30, 1962, to Secretary of the Navy Connally,|It revealed his letter of January thirty, nineteen sixty-two, to Secretary of the Navy Connally,
LJ047-0037|in which he protested his discharge and declared that he would use, quote, all means, end quote, to correct it.|in which he protested his discharge and declared that he would use, quote, all means, end quote, to correct it.
LJ047-0038|The file reflected the Department's determination that Oswald had not expatriated himself.|The file reflected the Department's determination that Oswald had not expatriated himself.
LJ047-0039|From return to Fort Worth to move to New Orleans.|From return to Fort Worth to move to New Orleans.
LJ047-0040|Oswald was first interviewed by FBI Agents John W. Fain and B. Tom Carter on June 26, 1962,|Oswald was first interviewed by FBI Agents John W. Fain and B. Tom Carter on June twenty-six, nineteen sixty-two,
LJ047-0041|Agent Fain reported to headquarters that Oswald was impatient and arrogant,|Agent Fain reported to headquarters that Oswald was impatient and arrogant,
LJ047-0042|and unwilling to answer questions regarding his motive for going to the Soviet Union.|and unwilling to answer questions regarding his motive for going to the Soviet Union.
LJ047-0043|Oswald, quote, denied that he had ever denounced his U.S. citizenship, and that he had ever applied for Soviet citizenship specifically, end quote.|Oswald, quote, denied that he had ever denounced his U.S. citizenship, and that he had ever applied for Soviet citizenship specifically, end quote.
LJ047-0044|Oswald was, however, willing to discuss his contacts with Soviet authorities. He denied having any involvement with Soviet intelligence agencies|Oswald was, however, willing to discuss his contacts with Soviet authorities. He denied having any involvement with Soviet intelligence agencies
LJ047-0045|and promised to advise the FBI if he heard from them.|and promised to advise the FBI if he heard from them.
LJ047-0046|Agent Fain was not satisfied by this interview and arranged to see Oswald again on August 16, 1962.|Agent Fain was not satisfied by this interview and arranged to see Oswald again on August sixteen, nineteen sixty-two.
LJ047-0047|According to Fain's contemporaneous memorandum and his present recollection,|According to Fain's contemporaneous memorandum and his present recollection,
LJ047-0048|while Oswald remained somewhat evasive at this interview, he was not antagonistic and seemed generally to be settling down.|while Oswald remained somewhat evasive at this interview, he was not antagonistic and seemed generally to be settling down.
LJ047-0049|Marina Oswald, however, recalled that her husband was upset by this interview.|Marina Oswald, however, recalled that her husband was upset by this interview.
LJ047-0050|Oswald again agreed to advise the FBI if he were approached under suspicious circumstances; however, he deprecated the possibility of this happening,|Oswald again agreed to advise the FBI if he were approached under suspicious circumstances; however, he deprecated the possibility of this happening,
LJ047-0051|particularly since his employment did not involve any sensitive information.|particularly since his employment did not involve any sensitive information.
LJ047-0052|Having concluded that Oswald was not a security risk or potentially dangerous or violent,|Having concluded that Oswald was not a security risk or potentially dangerous or violent,
LJ047-0053|Fain determined that nothing further remained to be done at that time and recommended that the case be placed in a closed status.|Fain determined that nothing further remained to be done at that time and recommended that the case be placed in a closed status.
LJ047-0054|This is an administrative classification indicating that no further work has been scheduled.|This is an administrative classification indicating that no further work has been scheduled.
LJ047-0055|It does not preclude the agent in charge of the case from reopening it if he feels that further work should be done.|It does not preclude the agent in charge of the case from reopening it if he feels that further work should be done.
LJ047-0056|From August 1962|From August nineteen sixty-two
LJ047-0057|until March 1963, the FBI continued to accumulate information regarding Oswald but engaged in no active investigation.|until March nineteen sixty-three, the FBI continued to accumulate information regarding Oswald but engaged in no active investigation.
LJ047-0058|Agent Fain retired from the FBI in October 1962, and the closed Oswald case was not reassigned.|Agent Fain retired from the FBI in October nineteen sixty-two, and the closed Oswald case was not reassigned.
LJ047-0060|Fain had been assigned to see Marina Oswald at an appropriate time.|Fain had been assigned to see Marina Oswald at an appropriate time.
LJ047-0061|This assignment was given to Agent James P. Hosty, Jr. of the Dallas office upon Fain's retirement.|This assignment was given to Agent James P. Hosty, Jr. of the Dallas office upon Fain's retirement.
LJ047-0062|In March 1963, while attempting to locate Marina Oswald,|In March nineteen sixty-three, while attempting to locate Marina Oswald,
LJ047-0063|Agent Hosty was told by Mrs. M. F. Tobias, a former landlady of the Oswalds at 602 Elsbeth Street in Dallas,|Agent Hosty was told by Mrs. M. F. Tobias, a former landlady of the Oswalds at six oh two Elsbeth Street in Dallas,
LJ047-0064|that other tenants had complained because Oswald was drinking to excess and beating his wife.|that other tenants had complained because Oswald was drinking to excess and beating his wife.
LJ047-0065|This information led Hosty to review Oswald's file, from which he learned that Oswald had become a subscriber to the Worker,|This information led Hosty to review Oswald's file, from which he learned that Oswald had become a subscriber to the Worker,
LJ047-0066|a Communist Party publication.|a Communist Party publication.
LJ047-0067|Hosty decided that the Lee Harvey Oswald case should be reopened because of the alleged personal difficulties and the contact with the Worker,|Hosty decided that the Lee Harvey Oswald case should be reopened because of the alleged personal difficulties and the contact with the Worker,
LJ047-0068|and his recommendation was accepted. He decided, however, not to interview Marina Oswald at that time, and merely determined|and his recommendation was accepted. He decided, however, not to interview Marina Oswald at that time, and merely determined
LJ047-0069|that the Oswalds were living at 214 Neely Street in Dallas.|that the Oswalds were living at two one four Neely Street in Dallas.
LJ047-0070|On April 21, 1963, the FBI field office in New York|On April twenty-one, nineteen sixty-three, the FBI field office in New York
LJ047-0071|was advised that Oswald was in contact with the Fair Play for Cuba Committee in New York, and that he had written to the committee|was advised that Oswald was in contact with the Fair Play for Cuba Committee in New York, and that he had written to the committee
LJ047-0072|stating that he had distributed its pamphlets on the streets of Dallas. This information did not reach Agent Hosty in Dallas until June.|stating that he had distributed its pamphlets on the streets of Dallas. This information did not reach Agent Hosty in Dallas until June.
LJ047-0073|Hosty considered the information to be, quote, stale, unquote, by that time, and did not attempt to verify Oswald's reported statement.|Hosty considered the information to be, quote, stale, unquote, by that time, and did not attempt to verify Oswald's reported statement.
LJ047-0074|Under a general Bureau request to be on the alert for activities of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee|Under a general Bureau request to be on the alert for activities of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee
LJ047-0075|Hosty had inquired earlier and found no evidence that it was functioning in the Dallas area.|Hosty had inquired earlier and found no evidence that it was functioning in the Dallas area.
LJ047-0076|In New Orleans. In the middle of May of 1963, Agent Hosty checked Oswald's last known residence and found that he had moved.|In New Orleans. In the middle of May of nineteen sixty-three, Agent Hosty checked Oswald's last known residence and found that he had moved.
LJ047-0077|Oswald was tentatively located in New Orleans in June,|Oswald was tentatively located in New Orleans in June,
LJ047-0078|and Hosty asked the New Orleans FBI office to determine Oswald's address and what he was doing.|and Hosty asked the New Orleans FBI office to determine Oswald's address and what he was doing.
LJ047-0079|The New Orleans office investigated and located Oswald, learning his address and former place of employment on August 5, 1963.|The New Orleans office investigated and located Oswald, learning his address and former place of employment on August five, nineteen sixty-three.
LJ047-0080|A confidential informant advised the FBI that Oswald was not known to be engaged in Communist Party activities in New Orleans.|A confidential informant advised the FBI that Oswald was not known to be engaged in Communist Party activities in New Orleans.
LJ047-0081|On June 24, Oswald applied in New Orleans for a passport, stating that he planned to depart by ship|On June twenty-four, Oswald applied in New Orleans for a passport, stating that he planned to depart by ship
LJ047-0082|for an extended tour of Western European countries, the Soviet Union, Finland, and Poland.|for an extended tour of Western European countries, the Soviet Union, Finland, and Poland.
LJ047-0083|The Passport Office of the Department of State in Washington had no listing for Oswald requiring special treatment,|The Passport Office of the Department of State in Washington had no listing for Oswald requiring special treatment,
LJ047-0084|and his application was approved on the following day.|and his application was approved on the following day.
LJ047-0085|The FBI had not asked to be informed of any effort by Oswald to obtain a passport,|The FBI had not asked to be informed of any effort by Oswald to obtain a passport,
LJ047-0086|as it might have under existing procedures, and did not know of his application.|as it might have under existing procedures, and did not know of his application.
LJ047-0087|According to the Bureau, quote,|According to the Bureau, quote,
LJ047-0088|We did not request the State Department to include Oswald on a list which would have resulted in advising us of any application for a passport|We did not request the State Department to include Oswald on a list which would have resulted in advising us of any application for a passport
LJ047-0089|inasmuch as the facts relating to Oswald's activities at that time did not warrant such action.|inasmuch as the facts relating to Oswald's activities at that time did not warrant such action.
LJ047-0090|Our investigation of Oswald had disclosed no evidence that Oswald was acting under the instructions or on behalf of|Our investigation of Oswald had disclosed no evidence that Oswald was acting under the instructions or on behalf of
LJ047-0091|any foreign government or instrumentality thereof. End quote.|any foreign government or instrumentality thereof. End quote.
LJ047-0092|On August 9, 1963,|On August nine, nineteen sixty-three,
LJ047-0093|Oswald was arrested and jailed by the New Orleans Police Department for disturbing the peace, in connection with a street fight which broke out when he was accosted|Oswald was arrested and jailed by the New Orleans Police Department for disturbing the peace, in connection with a street fight which broke out when he was accosted
LJ047-0094|by anti-Castro Cubans while distributing leaflets on behalf of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee.|by anti-Castro Cubans while distributing leaflets on behalf of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee.
LJ047-0095|On the next day, he asked the New Orleans police to arrange for him to be interviewed by the FBI.|On the next day, he asked the New Orleans police to arrange for him to be interviewed by the FBI.
LJ047-0096|The police called the local FBI office and an agent, John L. Quigley, was sent to the police station.|The police called the local FBI office and an agent, John L. Quigley, was sent to the police station.
LJ047-0097|Agent Quigley did not know of Oswald's prior FBI record when he interviewed him,|Agent Quigley did not know of Oswald's prior FBI record when he interviewed him,
LJ047-0098|inasmuch as the police had not given Oswald's name to the Bureau when they called the office.|inasmuch as the police had not given Oswald's name to the Bureau when they called the office.
LJ047-0099|Quigley recalled that Oswald was receptive when questioned about his general background|Quigley recalled that Oswald was receptive when questioned about his general background
LJ047-0100|but less than completely truthful or cooperative when interrogated about the Fair Play for Cuba Committee.|but less than completely truthful or cooperative when interrogated about the Fair Play for Cuba Committee.
LJ047-0101|Quigley testified, quote,|Quigley testified, quote,
LJ047-0102|When I began asking him specific details with respect to his activities in the Fair Play for Cuba Committee in New Orleans as to where meetings were held,|When I began asking him specific details with respect to his activities in the Fair Play for Cuba Committee in New Orleans as to where meetings were held,
LJ047-0103|who was involved, what occurred, he was reticent to furnish information,|who was involved, what occurred, he was reticent to furnish information,
LJ047-0104|reluctant and actually as far as I was concerned, was completely evasive on them. End quote.|reluctant and actually as far as I was concerned, was completely evasive on them. End quote.
LJ047-0105|In Quigley's judgment,|In Quigley's judgment,
LJ047-0106|Oswald, quote, was probably making a self-serving statement in attempting to explain to me why he was distributing this literature, and for no other reason,|Oswald, quote, was probably making a self-serving statement in attempting to explain to me why he was distributing this literature, and for no other reason,
LJ047-0107|and when I got to questioning him further then he felt that his purpose had been served and he wouldn't say anything further, end quote.|and when I got to questioning him further then he felt that his purpose had been served and he wouldn't say anything further, end quote.
LJ047-0108|During the interview Quigley obtained background information from Oswald which was inconsistent with information already in the Bureau's possession.|During the interview Quigley obtained background information from Oswald which was inconsistent with information already in the Bureau's possession.
LJ047-0109|When Quigley returned to his office, he learned|When Quigley returned to his office, he learned
LJ047-0110|that another Bureau agent, Milton R. Knack, had been conducting a background investigation of Oswald at the request of Agent Hosty in Dallas.|that another Bureau agent, Milton R. Knack, had been conducting a background investigation of Oswald at the request of Agent Hosty in Dallas.
LJ047-0111|Quigley advised Knack of his interview and gave him a detailed memorandum.|Quigley advised Knack of his interview and gave him a detailed memorandum.
LJ047-0112|Knack was aware of the facts known to the FBI and recognized Oswald's false statements.|Knack was aware of the facts known to the FBI and recognized Oswald's false statements.
LJ047-0113|For example, Oswald claimed that his wife's maiden name was Prossa|For example, Oswald claimed that his wife's maiden name was Prossa
LJ047-0114|and that they had been married in Fort Worth and lived there until coming to New Orleans. He had told the New Orleans arresting officers that he had been born in Cuba.|and that they had been married in Fort Worth and lived there until coming to New Orleans. He had told the New Orleans arresting officers that he had been born in Cuba.
LJ047-0115|Several days later, the Bureau received additional evidence that Oswald had lied to Agent Quigley.|Several days later, the Bureau received additional evidence that Oswald had lied to Agent Quigley.
LJ047-0116|On August 22, it learned that Oswald had appeared on a radio discussion program on August 21.|On August twenty-two, it learned that Oswald had appeared on a radio discussion program on August twenty-one.
LJ047-0117|William Stuckey, who had appeared on the radio program with Oswald, told the Bureau on August 30|William Stuckey, who had appeared on the radio program with Oswald, told the Bureau on August thirty
LJ047-0118|that Oswald had told him that he had worked and been married in the Soviet Union.|that Oswald had told him that he had worked and been married in the Soviet Union.
LJ047-0119|Neither these discrepancies nor the fact that Oswald had initiated the FBI interview|Neither these discrepancies nor the fact that Oswald had initiated the FBI interview
LJ047-0120|was considered sufficiently unusual to necessitate another interview. Alan H. Belmont, Assistant to the Director of the FBI,|was considered sufficiently unusual to necessitate another interview. Alan H. Belmont, Assistant to the Director of the FBI,
LJ047-0121|stated the Bureau's reasoning in this way, quote,|stated the Bureau's reasoning in this way, quote,
LJ047-0122|Our interest in this man at this point was to determine whether his activities constituted a threat to the internal security of the country.|Our interest in this man at this point was to determine whether his activities constituted a threat to the internal security of the country.
LJ047-0123|It was apparent that he had made a self-serving statement to Agent Quigley. It became a matter of record in our files as a part of the case,|It was apparent that he had made a self-serving statement to Agent Quigley. It became a matter of record in our files as a part of the case,
LJ047-0124|and if we determined that the course of the investigation required us to clarify or face him down with this information, we would do it at the appropriate time.|and if we determined that the course of the investigation required us to clarify or face him down with this information, we would do it at the appropriate time.
LJ047-0125|In other words, he committed no violation of the law by telling us something that wasn't true, and unless this required further investigation at that time,|In other words, he committed no violation of the law by telling us something that wasn't true, and unless this required further investigation at that time,
LJ047-0126|we would handle it in due course, in accord with the whole context of the investigation. End quote.|we would handle it in due course, in accord with the whole context of the investigation. End quote.
LJ047-0127|On August 21, 1963, Bureau headquarters instructed the New Orleans and Dallas field offices|On August twenty-one, nineteen sixty-three, Bureau headquarters instructed the New Orleans and Dallas field offices
LJ047-0128|to conduct an additional investigation of Oswald in view of the activities which had led to his arrest.|to conduct an additional investigation of Oswald in view of the activities which had led to his arrest.
LJ047-0129|FBI informants in the New Orleans area, familiar with pro-Castro or Communist Party activity there,|FBI informants in the New Orleans area, familiar with pro-Castro or Communist Party activity there,
LJ047-0130|advised the Bureau that Oswald was unknown in such circles.|advised the Bureau that Oswald was unknown in such circles.
LJ047-0131|In early September 1963|In early September nineteen sixty-three
LJ047-0132|the FBI transferred the principal responsibility for the Oswald case from the Dallas office to the New Orleans office.|the FBI transferred the principal responsibility for the Oswald case from the Dallas office to the New Orleans office.
LJ047-0133|Soon after, on October 1, 1963,|Soon after, on October one, nineteen sixty-three,
LJ047-0134|The FBI was advised by the rental agent for the Oswalds' apartment in New Orleans that they had moved again.|The FBI was advised by the rental agent for the Oswalds' apartment in New Orleans that they had moved again.
LJ047-0135|According to the information received by the Bureau|According to the information received by the Bureau
LJ047-0136|they had vacated their apartment, and Marina Oswald had departed with their child in a station wagon with Texas registration.|they had vacated their apartment, and Marina Oswald had departed with their child in a station wagon with Texas registration.
LJ047-0137|On October 3, Hosty reopened the case in Dallas to assist the New Orleans office.|On October three, Hosty reopened the case in Dallas to assist the New Orleans office.
LJ047-0138|He checked in Oswald's old neighborhood and throughout the Dallas-Fort Worth area but was unable to locate Oswald.|He checked in Oswald's old neighborhood and throughout the Dallas-Fort Worth area but was unable to locate Oswald.
LJ047-0139|The next word about Oswald's location was a communication from the CIA to the FBI on October 10,|The next word about Oswald's location was a communication from the CIA to the FBI on October ten,
LJ047-0140|advising that an individual tentatively identified as Oswald had been in touch with the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City|advising that an individual tentatively identified as Oswald had been in touch with the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City
LJ047-0141|in early October of 1963.|in early October of nineteen sixty-three.
LJ047-0143|The possible contact with the Soviet Embassy in Mexico intensified the FBI's interest in learning Oswald's whereabouts.|The possible contact with the Soviet Embassy in Mexico intensified the FBI's interest in learning Oswald's whereabouts.
LJ047-0144|The FBI representative in Mexico City arranged to follow up this information with the CIA and to verify Oswald's entry into Mexico.|The FBI representative in Mexico City arranged to follow up this information with the CIA and to verify Oswald's entry into Mexico.
LJ047-0145|The CIA message was sent also to the Department of State where it was reviewed by personnel of the Passport Office, who knew from Oswald's file|The CIA message was sent also to the Department of State where it was reviewed by personnel of the Passport Office, who knew from Oswald's file
LJ047-0146|that he had sought and obtained a passport on June 25, 1963.|that he had sought and obtained a passport on June twenty-five, nineteen sixty-three.
LJ047-0147|The Department of State did not advise either the CIA or the FBI of these facts.|The Department of State did not advise either the CIA or the FBI of these facts.
LJ047-0148|On October 25,|On October twenty-five,
LJ047-0149|the New Orleans office of the FBI learned that in September Oswald had given a forwarding address of 2515|the New Orleans office of the FBI learned that in September Oswald had given a forwarding address of two five one five
LJ047-0150|West Fifth Street, Irving, Texas. After receiving this information on October 29, Agent Hosty attempted to locate Oswald.|West Fifth Street, Irving, Texas. After receiving this information on October twenty-nine, Agent Hosty attempted to locate Oswald.
LJ047-0151|On the same day Hosty interviewed neighbors on Fifth Street and learned that the address was that of Mrs. Ruth Paine.|On the same day Hosty interviewed neighbors on Fifth Street and learned that the address was that of Mrs. Ruth Paine.
LJ047-0152|He conducted a limited background investigation of the Paines, intending to interview Mrs. Paine and ask her particularly about Oswald's whereabouts.|He conducted a limited background investigation of the Paines, intending to interview Mrs. Paine and ask her particularly about Oswald's whereabouts.
LJ047-0153|Having determined that Mrs. Paine was a responsible and reliable citizen, Hosty interviewed her on November 1.|Having determined that Mrs. Paine was a responsible and reliable citizen, Hosty interviewed her on November one.
LJ047-0154|The interview lasted about 20 to 25 minutes. In response to Hosty's inquiries, Mrs. Paine, quote,|The interview lasted about twenty to twenty-five minutes. In response to Hosty's inquiries, Mrs. Paine, quote,
LJ047-0155|readily admitted that Mrs. Marina Oswald and Lee Oswald's two children were staying with her.|readily admitted that Mrs. Marina Oswald and Lee Oswald's two children were staying with her.
LJ047-0156|She said that Lee Oswald was living somewhere in Dallas. She didn't know where. She said it was in the Oak Cliff area but she didn't have his address.|She said that Lee Oswald was living somewhere in Dallas. She didn't know where. She said it was in the Oak Cliff area but she didn't have his address.
LJ047-0157|I asked her if she knew where he worked.|I asked her if she knew where he worked.
LJ047-0158|After a moment's hesitation, she told me that he worked at the Texas School Book Depository near the downtown area of Dallas.|After a moment's hesitation, she told me that he worked at the Texas School Book Depository near the downtown area of Dallas.
LJ047-0159|She didn't have the exact address, and it is my recollection that we went to the phone book and looked it up,|She didn't have the exact address, and it is my recollection that we went to the phone book and looked it up,
LJ047-0160|found it to be 411 Elm Street. End quote.|found it to be four one one Elm  Street. End quote.
LJ047-0161|Mrs. Paine told Hosty also|Mrs. Paine told Hosty also
LJ047-0162|that Oswald was living alone in Dallas because she did not want him staying at her house, although she was willing to let Oswald visit his wife and children.|that Oswald was living alone in Dallas because she did not want him staying at her house, although she was willing to let Oswald visit his wife and children.
LJ047-0163|According to Hosty, Mrs. Paine indicated that she thought she could find out where Oswald was living and would let him know.|According to Hosty, Mrs. Paine indicated that she thought she could find out where Oswald was living and would let him know.
LJ047-0164|At this point in the interview, Hosty gave Mrs. Paine his name and office telephone number on a piece of paper.|At this point in the interview, Hosty gave Mrs. Paine his name and office telephone number on a piece of paper.
LJ047-0165|At the end of the interview, Marina Oswald came into the room. When he observed that she seemed, quote, quite alarmed, end quote, about the visit,|At the end of the interview, Marina Oswald came into the room. When he observed that she seemed, quote, quite alarmed, end quote, about the visit,
LJ047-0166|Hosty assured her, through Mrs. Paine as interpreter, that the FBI would not harm or harass her.|Hosty assured her, through Mrs. Paine as interpreter, that the FBI would not harm or harass her.
LJ047-0167|On November 4, Hosty telephoned the Texas School Book Depository and learned that Oswald was working there|On November four, Hosty telephoned the Texas School Book Depository and learned that Oswald was working there
LJ047-0168|and that he had given as his address Mrs. Paine's residence in Irving.|and that he had given as his address Mrs. Paine's residence in Irving.
LJ047-0169|Hosty took the necessary steps to have the Dallas office of the FBI, rather than the New Orleans office, reestablished as the office with principal responsibility.|Hosty took the necessary steps to have the Dallas office of the FBI, rather than the New Orleans office, reestablished as the office with principal responsibility.
LJ047-0170|On November 5, Hosty was traveling near Mrs. Paine's home and took the occasion to stop by to ask whether she had any further information.|On November five, Hosty was traveling near Mrs. Paine's home and took the occasion to stop by to ask whether she had any further information.
LJ047-0171|Mrs. Paine had nothing to add to what she had already told him, except that during a visit that past weekend,|Mrs. Paine had nothing to add to what she had already told him, except that during a visit that past weekend,
LJ047-0172|Oswald had said that he was a, quote, Trotskyite Communist, end quote.|Oswald had said that he was a, quote, Trotskyite Communist, end quote.
LJ047-0173|and that she found this and similar statements illogical and somewhat amusing. On this occasion Hosty was at the Paine residence for only a few minutes.|and that she found this and similar statements illogical and somewhat amusing. On this occasion Hosty was at the Paine residence for only a few minutes.
LJ047-0174|During neither interview did Hosty learn Oswald's address|During neither interview did Hosty learn Oswald's address
LJ047-0175|or telephone number in Dallas. Mrs. Paine testified that she learned Oswald's telephone number at the Beckley Street roominghouse in the middle of October|or telephone number in Dallas. Mrs. Paine testified that she learned Oswald's telephone number at the Beckley Street roominghouse in the middle of October
LJ047-0176|shortly after Oswald rented the room on October 14.|shortly after Oswald rented the room on October fourteen.
LJ047-0177|As discussed in chapter 6, she failed to report this to Agent Hosty|As discussed in chapter six, she failed to report this to Agent Hosty
LJ047-0178|because she thought the FBI was in possession of a great deal of information and certainly would find it very easy to learn where Oswald was living.|because she thought the FBI was in possession of a great deal of information and certainly would find it very easy to learn where Oswald was living.
LJ047-0179|Hosty did nothing further in connection with the Oswald case until after the assassination. On November 1, 1963,|Hosty did nothing further in connection with the Oswald case until after the assassination. On November one, nineteen sixty-three,
LJ047-0180|he had received a copy of the report of the New Orleans office which contained Agent Quigley's memorandum of the interview in the New Orleans jail on August 10,|he had received a copy of the report of the New Orleans office which contained Agent Quigley's memorandum of the interview in the New Orleans jail on August ten,
LJ047-0181|and realized immediately that Oswald had given false biographic information. Hosty knew that he would eventually have to investigate this, and, quote,|and realized immediately that Oswald had given false biographic information. Hosty knew that he would eventually have to investigate this, and, quote,
LJ047-0182|was quite interested in determining the nature of his contact with the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City, end quote.|was quite interested in determining the nature of his contact with the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City, end quote.
LJ047-0183|When asked what his next step would have been, Hosty replied, quote,|When asked what his next step would have been, Hosty replied, quote,
LJ047-0184|Well, as I had previously stated, I have between 25 and 40 cases assigned to me at any one time. I had other matters to take care of.|Well, as I had previously stated, I have between twenty-five and forty cases assigned to me at any one time. I had other matters to take care of.
LJ047-0185|I had now established that Lee Oswald was not employed in a sensitive industry.|I had now established that Lee Oswald was not employed in a sensitive industry.
LJ047-0186|I can now afford to wait until New Orleans forwarded the necessary papers to me to show me I now had all the information.|I can now afford to wait until New Orleans forwarded the necessary papers to me to show me I now had all the information.
LJ047-0187|It was then my plan to interview Marina Oswald in detail concerning both herself and her husband's background. Question:|It was then my plan to interview Marina Oswald in detail concerning both herself and her husband's background. Question:
LJ047-0188|Had you planned any steps beyond that point?|Had you planned any steps beyond that point?
LJ047-0189|Answer: No. I would have to wait until I had talked to Marina to see what I could determine, and from there I could make my plans.|Answer: No. I would have to wait until I had talked to Marina to see what I could determine, and from there I could make my plans.
LJ047-0190|Question: Did you take any action on this case between November 5 and November 22? Answer: No, sir.|Question: Did you take any action on this case between November five and November twenty-two? Answer: No, sir.
LJ047-0191|The official Bureau files confirm Hosty's statement that from November 5 until the assassination, no active investigation was conducted.|The official Bureau files confirm Hosty's statement that from November five until the assassination, no active investigation was conducted.
LJ047-0192|On November 18 the FBI learned that Oswald recently had been in communication with the Soviet Embassy in Washington|On November eighteen the FBI learned that Oswald recently had been in communication with the Soviet Embassy in Washington
LJ047-0193|and so advised the Dallas office in the ordinary course of business.|and so advised the Dallas office in the ordinary course of business.
LJ047-0194|Hosty received this information on the afternoon of November 22, 1963.|Hosty received this information on the afternoon of November twenty-two, nineteen sixty-three.
LJ047-0195|Nonreferral of Oswald to the Secret Service.|Nonreferral of Oswald to the Secret Service.
LJ047-0196|The Commission has considered carefully the question whether the FBI,|The Commission has considered carefully the question whether the FBI,
LJ047-0197|in view of all the information concerning Oswald in its files, should have alerted the Secret Service to Oswald's presence in Dallas|in view of all the information concerning Oswald in its files, should have alerted the Secret Service to Oswald's presence in Dallas
LJ047-0198|prior to President Kennedy's visit.|prior to President Kennedy's visit.
LJ047-0199|The Secret Service and the FBI differ|The Secret Service and the FBI differ
LJ047-0200|as to whether Oswald fell within the category of, quote, threats against the President, end quote, which should be referred to the Service.|as to whether Oswald fell within the category of, quote, threats against the President, end quote, which should be referred to the Service.
LJ047-0201|Robert I Bouck, special agent in charge of the Protective Research Section,|Robert I Bouck, special agent in charge of the Protective Research Section,
LJ047-0202|testified that the information available to the Federal Government about Oswald before the assassination would, if known to PRS,|testified that the information available to the Federal Government about Oswald before the assassination would, if known to PRS,
LJ047-0203|have made Oswald a subject of concern to the Secret Service.|have made Oswald a subject of concern to the Secret Service.
LJ047-0204|Bouck pointed to a number of characteristics besides Oswald's defection the cumulative effect of which would have been to alert the Secret Service|Bouck pointed to a number of characteristics besides Oswald's defection the cumulative effect of which would have been to alert the Secret Service
LJ047-0205|to potential danger, quote,|to potential danger, quote,
LJ047-0206|I would think his continued association with the Russian Embassy after his return,|I would think his continued association with the Russian Embassy after his return,
LJ047-0207|his association with the Castro groups would have been of concern to us, a knowledge that he had, I believe,|his association with the Castro groups would have been of concern to us, a knowledge that he had, I believe,
LJ047-0208|been courtmartialed for illegal possession of a gun, of a handgun in the Marines,|been courtmartialed for illegal possession of a gun, of a handgun in the Marines,
LJ047-0209|that he had owned a weapon and did a good deal of hunting or use of it, perhaps in Russia, plus a number of items about his disposition and unreliability of character,|that he had owned a weapon and did a good deal of hunting or use of it, perhaps in Russia, plus a number of items about his disposition and unreliability of character,
LJ047-0210|I think all of those, if we had them all together,|I think all of those, if we had them all together,
LJ047-0211|would have added up to pointing out a pretty bad individual, and I think that, together, had we known that he had a vantage point|would have added up to pointing out a pretty bad individual, and I think that, together, had we known that he had a vantage point
LJ047-0212|would have seemed somewhat serious to us, even though I must admit, that none of these in themselves would be|would have seemed somewhat serious to us, even though I must admit, that none of these in themselves would be
LJ047-0213|would meet our specific criteria, none of them alone. But, it is when you begin adding them up to some degree that you begin to get criteria that, are meaningful.|would meet our specific criteria, none of them alone. But, it is when you begin adding them up to some degree that you begin to get criteria that, are meaningful.
LJ047-0214|End quote. Mr. Bouck pointed out, however, that he had no reason to believe that any one Federal agency had access to all this information,|End quote. Mr. Bouck pointed out, however, that he had no reason to believe that any one Federal agency had access to all this information,
LJ047-0215|including the significant fact that Oswald was employed in a building which overlooked the motorcade route.|including the significant fact that Oswald was employed in a building which overlooked the motorcade route.
LJ047-0216|Agent Hosty testified that he was fully aware of the pending Presidential visit to Dallas.|Agent Hosty testified that he was fully aware of the pending Presidential visit to Dallas.
LJ047-0217|He recalled that the special agent in charge of the Dallas office of the FBI, J. Gordon Shanklin,|He recalled that the special agent in charge of the Dallas office of the FBI, J. Gordon Shanklin,
LJ047-0218|had discussed the President's visit on several occasions, including the regular biweekly conference on the morning of November 22|had discussed the President's visit on several occasions, including the regular biweekly conference on the morning of November twenty-two
LJ047-0219|Quote, Mr. Shanklin advised us, among other things,|Quote, Mr. Shanklin advised us, among other things,
LJ047-0220|that in view of the President's visit to Dallas, that if anyone had any indication of any possibility of any acts of violence or any demonstrations against the President,|that in view of the President's visit to Dallas, that if anyone had any indication of any possibility of any acts of violence or any demonstrations against the President,
LJ047-0221|or Vice President, to immediately notify the Secret Service and confirm it in writing.|or Vice President, to immediately notify the Secret Service and confirm it in writing.
LJ047-0222|He had made the same statement about a week prior at another special conference which we had held.|He had made the same statement about a week prior at another special conference which we had held.
LJ047-0223|I don't recall the exact date. It was about a week prior. End quote.|I don't recall the exact date. It was about a week prior. End quote.
LJ047-0224|In fact, Hosty participated in transmitting to the Secret Service two pieces of information pertaining to the visit.|In fact, Hosty participated in transmitting to the Secret Service two pieces of information pertaining to the visit.
LJ047-0225|Hosty testified that he did not know until the evening of Thursday, November 21, that there was to be a motorcade, however,|Hosty testified that he did not know until the evening of Thursday, November twenty-one, that there was to be a motorcade, however,
LJ047-0226|and never realized that the motorcade would pass the Texas School Book Depository Building.|and never realized that the motorcade would pass the Texas School Book Depository Building.
LJ047-0227|He testified that he did not read the newspaper story describing the motorcade route in detail, since he was interested only in the fact|He testified that he did not read the newspaper story describing the motorcade route in detail, since he was interested only in the fact
LJ047-0228|that the motorcade was coming up Main Street, quote, where maybe I could watch it if I had a chance, end quote.|that the motorcade was coming up Main Street, quote, where maybe I could watch it if I had a chance, end quote.
LJ047-0229|Even if he had recalled that Oswald's place of employment was on the President's route,|Even if he had recalled that Oswald's place of employment was on the President's route,
LJ047-0230|Hosty testified that he would not have cited him to the Secret Service as a potential threat to the President. Hosty interpreted his instructions as requiring, quote,|Hosty testified that he would not have cited him to the Secret Service as a potential threat to the President. Hosty interpreted his instructions as requiring, quote,
LJ047-0231|some indication that the person planned to take some action against the safety of the President of the United States or the Vice President. End quote.|some indication that the person planned to take some action against the safety of the President of the United States or the Vice President. End quote.
LJ047-0232|In his opinion, none of the information in the FBI files -- Oswald's defection, his Fair Play for Cuba activities in New Orleans,|In his opinion, none of the information in the FBI files -- Oswald's defection, his Fair Play for Cuba activities in New Orleans,
LJ047-0233|his lies to Agent Quigley, his recent visit to Mexico City -- indicated that Oswald was capable of violence.|his lies to Agent Quigley, his recent visit to Mexico City -- indicated that Oswald was capable of violence.
LJ047-0234|Hosty's initial reaction on hearing that Oswald was a suspect in the assassination, was, quote, shock|Hosty's initial reaction on hearing that Oswald was a suspect in the assassination, was, quote, shock
LJ047-0235|complete surprise, end quote, because he had no reason to believe that Oswald, quote,|complete surprise, end quote, because he had no reason to believe that Oswald, quote,
LJ047-0236|was capable or potentially an assassin of the President of the United States, end quote.|was capable or potentially an assassin of the President of the United States, end quote.
LJ047-0237|Shortly after Oswald was apprehended and identified, Hosty's superior sent him to observe the interrogation of Oswald.|Shortly after Oswald was apprehended and identified, Hosty's superior sent him to observe the interrogation of Oswald.
LJ047-0238|Hosty parked his car in the basement of police headquarters and there met an acquaintance, Lt. Jack Revill of the Dallas police force.|Hosty parked his car in the basement of police headquarters and there met an acquaintance, Lt. Jack Revill of the Dallas police force.
LJ047-0239|The two men disagree about the conversation which took place between them.|The two men disagree about the conversation which took place between them.
LJ047-0240|They agree that Hosty told Revill|They agree that Hosty told Revill
LJ047-0241|that the FBI had known about Oswald and, in particular, of his presence in Dallas and his employment at the Texas School Book Depository Building.|that the FBI had known about Oswald and, in particular, of his presence in Dallas and his employment at the Texas School Book Depository Building.
LJ047-0242|Revill testified that Hosty said also that the FBI had information that Oswald was, quote, capable of committing this assassination, end quote.|Revill testified that Hosty said also that the FBI had information that Oswald was, quote, capable of committing this assassination, end quote.
LJ047-0243|According to Revill, Hosty indicated that he was going to tell this to Lieutenant Wells of the homicide and robbery bureau.|According to Revill, Hosty indicated that he was going to tell this to Lieutenant Wells of the homicide and robbery bureau.
LJ047-0244|Revill promptly made a memorandum of this conversation in which the quoted statement appears.|Revill promptly made a memorandum of this conversation in which the quoted statement appears.
LJ047-0245|His secretary testified that she prepared such a report for him that afternoon and Chief of Police Jesse E. Curry|His secretary testified that she prepared such a report for him that afternoon and Chief of Police Jesse E. Curry
LJ047-0246|and District Attorney Henry M. Wade both testified that they saw it later that day.|and District Attorney Henry M. Wade both testified that they saw it later that day.
LJ047-0247|Hosty has unequivocally denied, first by affidavit and then in his testimony before the Commission,|Hosty has unequivocally denied, first by affidavit and then in his testimony before the Commission,
LJ047-0248|that he ever said that Oswald was capable of violence, or that he had any information suggesting this.|that he ever said that Oswald was capable of violence, or that he had any information suggesting this.
LJ047-0249|The only witness to the conversation was Dallas Police Detective V. J. Brian, who was accompanying Revill.|The only witness to the conversation was Dallas Police Detective V. J. Brian, who was accompanying Revill.
LJ047-0250|Brian did not hear Hosty make any statement concerning Oswald's capacity to be an assassin|Brian did not hear Hosty make any statement concerning Oswald's capacity to be an assassin
LJ048-0001|Report of the President's Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy. The Warren Commission Report. By The President's Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy.|Report of the President's Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy. The Warren Commission Report. By The President's Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy.
LJ048-0002|Chapter 8. The Protection of the President. Part 3.|Chapter eight. The Protection of the President. Part three.
LJ048-0003|Hosty's interpretation of the prevailing FBI instructions on referrals to the Secret Service was defended before the Commission by his superiors.|Hosty's interpretation of the prevailing FBI instructions on referrals to the Secret Service was defended before the Commission by his superiors.
LJ048-0004|After summarizing the Bureau's investigative interest in Oswald prior to the assassination, J. Edgar Hoover concluded that, quote,|After summarizing the Bureau's investigative interest in Oswald prior to the assassination, J. Edgar Hoover concluded that, quote,
LJ048-0005|There was nothing up to the time of the assassination that gave any indication that this man was a dangerous character who might do harm to the President|There was nothing up to the time of the assassination that gave any indication that this man was a dangerous character who might do harm to the President
LJ048-0006|or to the Vice President, end quote.|or to the Vice President, end quote.
LJ048-0007|Director Hoover emphasized that the first indication of Oswald's capacity for violence|Director Hoover emphasized that the first indication of Oswald's capacity for violence
LJ048-0008|was his attempt on General Walker's life, which did not become known to the FBI until after the assassination.|was his attempt on General Walker's life, which did not become known to the FBI until after the assassination.
LJ048-0009|Both Director Hoover and his assistant, Alan H. Belmont,|Both Director Hoover and his assistant, Alan H. Belmont,
LJ048-0010|stressed also the decision by the Department of State that Oswald should be permitted to return to the United States.|stressed also the decision by the Department of State that Oswald should be permitted to return to the United States.
LJ048-0011|Neither believed that the Bureau investigation of him up to November 22 revealed any information which would have justified referral to the Secret Service.|Neither believed that the Bureau investigation of him up to November twenty-two revealed any information which would have justified referral to the Secret Service.
LJ048-0012|According to Belmont, when Oswald returned from the Soviet Union, quote,|According to Belmont, when Oswald returned from the Soviet Union, quote,
LJ048-0013|he indicated that he had learned his lesson,|he indicated that he had learned his lesson,
LJ048-0014|was disenchanted with Russia, and had a renewed concept -- I am paraphrasing, a renewed concept -- of the American free society.|was disenchanted with Russia, and had a renewed concept -- I am paraphrasing, a renewed concept -- of the American free society.
LJ048-0015|We talked to him twice.|We talked to him twice.
LJ048-0016|He likewise indicated he was disenchanted with Russia.|He likewise indicated he was disenchanted with Russia.
LJ048-0017|We satisfied ourselves that we had met our requirement, namely to find out whether he had been recruited by Soviet intelligence. The case was closed.|We satisfied ourselves that we had met our requirement, namely to find out whether he had been recruited by Soviet intelligence. The case was closed.
LJ048-0018|We again exhibited interest on the basis of these contacts with The Worker, Fair Play for Cuba Committee, which are relatively inconsequential.|We again exhibited interest on the basis of these contacts with The Worker, Fair Play for Cuba Committee, which are relatively inconsequential.
LJ048-0019|His activities for the Fair Play for Cuba Committee in New Orleans, we knew, were not of real consequence as he was not connected with any organized activity there.|His activities for the Fair Play for Cuba Committee in New Orleans, we knew, were not of real consequence as he was not connected with any organized activity there.
LJ048-0020|The interview with him in jail is not significant from the standpoint of whether he had a propensity for violence.|The interview with him in jail is not significant from the standpoint of whether he had a propensity for violence.
LJ048-0021|Question: This is the Quigley interview you are talking about?|Question: This is the Quigley interview you are talking about?
LJ048-0022|Answer: Yes. It was a self-serving interview. The visits with the Soviet Embassy were evidently for the purpose of securing a visa,|Answer: Yes. It was a self-serving interview. The visits with the Soviet Embassy were evidently for the purpose of securing a visa,
LJ048-0023|and he had told us during one of the interviews that he would probably take his wife back to Soviet Russia some time in the future.|and he had told us during one of the interviews that he would probably take his wife back to Soviet Russia some time in the future.
LJ048-0024|He had come back to Dallas. Hosty had established that he had a job, he was working,|He had come back to Dallas. Hosty had established that he had a job, he was working,
LJ048-0025|and had told Mrs. Paine that when he got the money he was going to take an apartment, when the baby was old enough, he was going to take an apartment, and the family would live together.|and had told Mrs. Paine that when he got the money he was going to take an apartment, when the baby was old enough, he was going to take an apartment, and the family would live together.
LJ048-0026|He gave evidence of settling down.|He gave evidence of settling down.
LJ048-0027|Nowhere during the course of this investigation or the information that came to us from other agencies was there any indication of a potential for violence on his part.|Nowhere during the course of this investigation or the information that came to us from other agencies was there any indication of a potential for violence on his part.
LJ048-0028|Consequently, there was no basis for Hosty to go to Secret Service and advise them of Oswald's presence. End quote|Consequently, there was no basis for Hosty to go to Secret Service and advise them of Oswald's presence. End quote
LJ048-0029|As reflected in this testimony,|As reflected in this testimony,
LJ048-0030|the officials of the FBI believed that there was no data in its files which gave warning that Oswald was a source of danger to President Kennedy.|the officials of the FBI believed that there was no data in its files which gave warning that Oswald was a source of danger to President Kennedy.
LJ048-0031|While he had expressed hostility at times toward the State Department, the Marine Corps, and the FBI as agents of the Government,|While he had expressed hostility at times toward the State Department, the Marine Corps, and the FBI as agents of the Government,
LJ048-0032|so far as the FBI knew he had not shown any potential for violence.|so far as the FBI knew he had not shown any potential for violence.
LJ048-0033|Prior to November 22, 1963|Prior to November twenty-two, nineteen sixty-three
LJ048-0034|no law enforcement agency had any information to connect Oswald with the attempted shooting of General Walker.|no law enforcement agency had any information to connect Oswald with the attempted shooting of General Walker.
LJ048-0036|that agents of the FBI in Dallas did not consider Oswald's presence in the Texas School Book Depository Building|that agents of the FBI in Dallas did not consider Oswald's presence in the Texas School Book Depository Building
LJ048-0037|overlooking the motorcade route as a source of danger to the President and did not inform the Secret Service of his employment in the Depository Building.|overlooking the motorcade route as a source of danger to the President and did not inform the Secret Service of his employment in the Depository Building.
LJ048-0038|The Commission believes, however,|The Commission believes, however,
LJ048-0039|that the FBI took an unduly restrictive view of its responsibilities in preventive intelligence work, prior to the assassination.|that the FBI took an unduly restrictive view of its responsibilities in preventive intelligence work, prior to the assassination.
LJ048-0040|The Commission appreciates the large volume of cases handled by the FBI|The Commission appreciates the large volume of cases handled by the FBI
LJ048-0041|636,371 investigative matters during fiscal year 1963|six hundred thirty-six thousand, three hundred seventy-one investigative matters during fiscal year nineteen sixty-three
LJ048-0042|There were no Secret Service criteria which specifically required the referral of Oswald's case to the Secret Service;|There were no Secret Service criteria which specifically required the referral of Oswald's case to the Secret Service;
LJ048-0043|nor was there any requirement to report the names of defectors. However, there was much material in the hands of the FBI about Oswald:|nor was there any requirement to report the names of defectors. However, there was much material in the hands of the FBI about Oswald:
LJ048-0044|the knowledge of his defection, his arrogance and hostility to the United States,|the knowledge of his defection, his arrogance and hostility to the United States,
LJ048-0045|his pro-Castro tendencies, his lies when interrogated by the FBI,|his pro-Castro tendencies, his lies when interrogated by the FBI,
LJ048-0046|his trip to Mexico where he was in contact with Soviet authorities,|his trip to Mexico where he was in contact with Soviet authorities,
LJ048-0047|his presence in the School Book Depository job and its location along the route of the motorcade.|his presence in the School Book Depository job and its location along the route of the motorcade.
LJ048-0048|All this does seem to amount to enough to have induced an alert agency, such as the FBI,|All this does seem to amount to enough to have induced an alert agency, such as the FBI,
LJ048-0049|possessed of this information to list Oswald as a potential threat to the safety of the President.|possessed of this information to list Oswald as a potential threat to the safety of the President.
LJ048-0050|This conclusion may be tinged with hindsight, but|This conclusion may be tinged with hindsight, but
LJ048-0051|it stated primarily to direct the thought of those responsible for the future safety of our Presidents to the need for a more imaginative|it stated primarily to direct the thought of those responsible for the future safety of our Presidents to the need for a more imaginative
LJ048-0052|and less narrow interpretation of their responsibilities.|and less narrow interpretation of their responsibilities.
LJ048-0053|It is the conclusion of the Commission that, even in the absence of Secret Service criteria|It is the conclusion of the Commission that, even in the absence of Secret Service criteria
LJ048-0054|which specifically required the referral of such a case as Oswald's to the Secret Service,|which specifically required the referral of such a case as Oswald's to the Secret Service,
LJ048-0055|a more alert and carefully considered treatment of the Oswald case by the Bureau might have brought about such a referral.|a more alert and carefully considered treatment of the Oswald case by the Bureau might have brought about such a referral.
LJ048-0056|Had such a review been undertaken by the FBI,|Had such a review been undertaken by the FBI,
LJ048-0057|there might conceivably have been additional investigation of the Oswald case between November 5 and November 22.|there might conceivably have been additional investigation of the Oswald case between November five and November twenty-two.
LJ048-0058|Agent Hosty testified|Agent Hosty testified
LJ048-0059|that several matters brought to his attention in late October and early November, including the visit to the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City,|that several matters brought to his attention in late October and early November, including the visit to the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City,
LJ048-0060|required further attention.|required further attention.
LJ048-0061|Under proper procedures knowledge of the pending Presidential visit might have prompted Hosty|Under proper procedures knowledge of the pending Presidential visit might have prompted Hosty
LJ048-0062|to have made more vigorous efforts to locate Oswald's roominghouse address in Dallas and to interview him regarding these unresolved matters.|to have made more vigorous efforts to locate Oswald's roominghouse address in Dallas and to interview him regarding these unresolved matters.
LJ048-0064|While the Secret Service bears the principal responsibility for this failure,|While the Secret Service bears the principal responsibility for this failure,
LJ048-0065|the FBI instructions did not reflect fully the Secret Service's need for information regarding potential threats.|the FBI instructions did not reflect fully the Secret Service's need for information regarding potential threats.
LJ048-0066|The handbook referred thus to, quote, the possibility of an attempt against the person or safety of the President, end quote.|The handbook referred thus to, quote, the possibility of an attempt against the person or safety of the President, end quote.
LJ048-0067|It is clear from Hosty's testimony that this was construed, at least by him,|It is clear from Hosty's testimony that this was construed, at least by him,
LJ048-0068|as requiring evidence of a plan or conspiracy to injure the President.|as requiring evidence of a plan or conspiracy to injure the President.
LJ048-0069|Efforts made by the Bureau since the assassination, on the other hand,|Efforts made by the Bureau since the assassination, on the other hand,
LJ048-0070|reflect keen awareness of the necessity of communicating a much wider range of intelligence information to the Service.|reflect keen awareness of the necessity of communicating a much wider range of intelligence information to the Service.
LJ048-0071|Most important, notwithstanding that both agencies have professed to the Commission that the liaison between them was close and fully sufficient,|Most important, notwithstanding that both agencies have professed to the Commission that the liaison between them was close and fully sufficient,
LJ048-0072|the Commission does not believe that the liaison between the FBI and the Secret Service prior to the assassination was as effective as it should have been.|the Commission does not believe that the liaison between the FBI and the Secret Service prior to the assassination was as effective as it should have been.
LJ048-0073|The FBI Manual of Instructions provided, quote, Liaison With Other Government Agencies|The FBI Manual of Instructions provided, quote, Liaison With Other Government Agencies
LJ048-0074|To insure adequate and effective liaison arrangements,|To insure adequate and effective liaison arrangements,
LJ048-0075|each SAC should specifically designate an Agent (or Agents) to be responsible for developing|each SAC should specifically designate an Agent (or Agents) to be responsible for developing
LJ048-0076|and maintaining liaison with other Federal Agencies. This liaison should take into consideration|and maintaining liaison with other Federal Agencies. This liaison should take into consideration
LJ048-0077|FBI-agency community of interests, location of agency head quarters, and the responsiveness of agency representatives.|FBI-agency community of interests, location of agency head quarters, and the responsiveness of agency representatives.
LJ048-0078|In each instance, liaison contacts should be developed to include a close friendly relationship,|In each instance, liaison contacts should be developed to include a close friendly relationship,
LJ048-0079|mutual understanding of FBI and agency jurisdictions, and an indicated willingness by the agency representative|mutual understanding of FBI and agency jurisdictions, and an indicated willingness by the agency representative
LJ048-0080|to coordinate activities and to discuss problems of mutual interest.|to coordinate activities and to discuss problems of mutual interest.
LJ048-0081|Each field office should determine those Federal agencies which are represented locally and with which liaison should be conducted. End quote.|Each field office should determine those Federal agencies which are represented locally and with which liaison should be conducted. End quote.
LJ048-0082|The testimony reveals that liaison responsibilities in connection with the President's visit|The testimony reveals that liaison responsibilities in connection with the President's visit
LJ048-0083|were discussed twice officially by the special agent in charge of the FBI office in Dallas. As discussed in chapter 2,|were discussed twice officially by the special agent in charge of the FBI office in Dallas. As discussed in chapter two,
LJ048-0084|some limited information was made available to the Secret Service. But there was no fully adequate liaison between the two agencies. Indeed,|some limited information was made available to the Secret Service. But there was no fully adequate liaison between the two agencies. Indeed,
LJ048-0085|the Commission believes that the liaison between all Federal agencies responsible for Presidential protection should be improved.|the Commission believes that the liaison between all Federal agencies responsible for Presidential protection should be improved.
LJ048-0086|Other Protective Measures and Aspects of Secret Service Performance|Other Protective Measures and Aspects of Secret Service Performance
LJ048-0087|The President's trip to Dallas called into play many standard operating procedures of the Secret Service in addition to its preventive intelligence operations.|The President's trip to Dallas called into play many standard operating procedures of the Secret Service in addition to its preventive intelligence operations.
LJ048-0088|Examination of these procedures shows that in most respects they were well conceived and ably executed by the personnel of the Service.|Examination of these procedures shows that in most respects they were well conceived and ably executed by the personnel of the Service.
LJ048-0089|Against the background of the critical events of November 22, however,|Against the background of the critical events of November twenty-two, however,
LJ048-0090|certain shortcomings and lapses from the high standards which the Commission believes should prevail in the field of Presidential protection are evident.|certain shortcomings and lapses from the high standards which the Commission believes should prevail in the field of Presidential protection are evident.
LJ048-0091|Advance preparations.|Advance preparations.
LJ048-0092|The advance preparations in Dallas by Agent Winston G. Lawson of the White House detail have been described in chapter 2.|The advance preparations in Dallas by Agent Winston G. Lawson of the White House detail have been described in chapter two.
LJ048-0093|With the assistance of Agent in Charge Sorrels of the Dallas field office of the Secret Service,|With the assistance of Agent in Charge Sorrels of the Dallas field office of the Secret Service,
LJ048-0094|Lawson was responsible for working out a great many arrangements for the President's trip.|Lawson was responsible for working out a great many arrangements for the President's trip.
LJ048-0095|The Service prefers to have two agents perform advance preparations.|The Service prefers to have two agents perform advance preparations.
LJ048-0096|In the case of Dallas, because President Kennedy had scheduled visits to five Texas cities|In the case of Dallas, because President Kennedy had scheduled visits to five Texas cities
LJ048-0097|and had also scheduled visits to other parts of the country immediately before the Texas trip,|and had also scheduled visits to other parts of the country immediately before the Texas trip,
LJ048-0098|there were not enough men available to permit two agents to be assigned to all the advance work.|there were not enough men available to permit two agents to be assigned to all the advance work.
LJ048-0099|Agent Lawson did the advance work alone from November 13 to November 18, when he was joined by Agent David B. Grant,|Agent Lawson did the advance work alone from November thirteen to November eighteen, when he was joined by Agent David B. Grant,
LJ048-0100|who had just completed advance work on the President's trip to Tampa.|who had just completed advance work on the President's trip to Tampa.
LJ048-0101|The Commission concludes that the most significant advance arrangements for the President's trip were soundly planned.|The Commission concludes that the most significant advance arrangements for the President's trip were soundly planned.
LJ048-0102|In particular, the Commission believes that the motorcade route selected by Agent Lawson, upon the advice of Agent in Charge Sorrels|In particular, the Commission believes that the motorcade route selected by Agent Lawson, upon the advice of Agent in Charge Sorrels
LJ048-0103|and with the concurrence of the Dallas police, was entirely appropriate, in view of the known desires of the President.|and with the concurrence of the Dallas police, was entirely appropriate, in view of the known desires of the President.
LJ048-0105|but these routes would not have been in accordance with the White House staff instructions given the Secret Service for a desirable motorcade route.|but these routes would not have been in accordance with the White House staff instructions given the Secret Service for a desirable motorcade route.
LJ048-0106|Much of Lawson's time was taken with establishing adequate security over the motorcade route and at the two places where the President would stop,|Much of Lawson's time was taken with establishing adequate security over the motorcade route and at the two places where the President would stop,
LJ048-0107|Love Field and the Trade Mart.|Love Field and the Trade Mart.
LJ048-0109|by these Secret Service agents with the cooperation of the Dallas police and other local law enforcement agents, were carefully executed.|by these Secret Service agents with the cooperation of the Dallas police and other local law enforcement agents, were carefully executed.
LJ048-0110|Since the President was to be at the Trade Mart longer than at any other location in Dallas and in view of the security hazards presented by the building,|Since the President was to be at the Trade Mart longer than at any other location in Dallas and in view of the security hazards presented by the building,
LJ048-0111|the Secret Service correctly gave particular attention in the advance preparations to those arrangements.|the Secret Service correctly gave particular attention in the advance preparations to those arrangements.
LJ048-0112|The Commission also regards the security arrangements worked out by Lawson and Sorrels at Love Field as entirely adequate.|The Commission also regards the security arrangements worked out by Lawson and Sorrels at Love Field as entirely adequate.
LJ048-0113|The Commission believes, however,|The Commission believes, however,
LJ048-0114|that the Secret Service has inadequately defined the responsibilities of its advance agents, who have been given broad discretion|that the Secret Service has inadequately defined the responsibilities of its advance agents, who have been given broad discretion
LJ048-0115|to determine what matters require attention in making advance preparations and to decide what action to take.|to determine what matters require attention in making advance preparations and to decide what action to take.
LJ048-0116|Agent Lawson was not given written instructions concerning the Dallas trip or advice about any peculiar problems which it might involve;|Agent Lawson was not given written instructions concerning the Dallas trip or advice about any peculiar problems which it might involve;
LJ048-0117|all instructions from higher authority were communicated to him orally.|all instructions from higher authority were communicated to him orally.
LJ048-0118|He did not have a checklist of the tasks he was expected to accomplish, either by his own efforts or with the cooperation of local authorities.|He did not have a checklist of the tasks he was expected to accomplish, either by his own efforts or with the cooperation of local authorities.
LJ048-0119|The only systematic supervision of the activities of the advance agent|The only systematic supervision of the activities of the advance agent
LJ048-0120|has been that provided by a requirement that he file interim and final reports on each advance assignment.|has been that provided by a requirement that he file interim and final reports on each advance assignment.
LJ048-0121|The interim report must be in the hands of the agent supervising the protective group traveling with the President|The interim report must be in the hands of the agent supervising the protective group traveling with the President
LJ048-0122|long enough before his departure to apprise him of any particular problems encountered and the responsive action taken.|long enough before his departure to apprise him of any particular problems encountered and the responsive action taken.
LJ048-0123|Agent Lawson's interim report was received by Agent Kellerman on November 20, the day before departure on the Texas trip.|Agent Lawson's interim report was received by Agent Kellerman on November twenty, the day before departure on the Texas trip.
LJ048-0124|The Secret Service has advised the Commission that no unusual precautions were taken for the Dallas trip, and that, quote,|The Secret Service has advised the Commission that no unusual precautions were taken for the Dallas trip, and that, quote,
LJ048-0125|the precautions taken for the President's trip were the usual safeguards employed on trips of this kind in the United States during the previous year, end quote.|the precautions taken for the President's trip were the usual safeguards employed on trips of this kind in the United States during the previous year, end quote.
LJ048-0126|Special Agent in Charge Sorrels testified that the advance preparations followed on this occasion were, quote, pretty much the same, end quote,|Special Agent in Charge Sorrels testified that the advance preparations followed on this occasion were, quote, pretty much the same, end quote,
LJ048-0127|as those followed in 1936 during a trip to Dallas by President Roosevelt,|as those followed in nineteen thirty-six during a trip to Dallas by President Roosevelt,
LJ048-0128|which was Sorrels' first important assignment in connection with Presidential work.|which was Sorrels' first important assignment in connection with Presidential work.
LJ048-0129|In view of the constant change in the nature of threats to the President and the diversity of the dangers which may arise in the various cities within the United States,|In view of the constant change in the nature of threats to the President and the diversity of the dangers which may arise in the various cities within the United States,
LJ048-0130|the Commission believes that standard procedures in use for many years and applied in all parts of the country may not be sufficient.|the Commission believes that standard procedures in use for many years and applied in all parts of the country may not be sufficient.
LJ048-0131|There is, for example, no Secret Service arrangement for evaluating before a trip particular difficulties that might be anticipated,|There is, for example, no Secret Service arrangement for evaluating before a trip particular difficulties that might be anticipated,
LJ048-0132|which would bring to bear the judgment and experience of members of the White House detail other than the advance agent.|which would bring to bear the judgment and experience of members of the White House detail other than the advance agent.
LJ048-0133|Constant reevaluation of procedures, with attention to special problems and the development of instructions specific to particular trips|Constant reevaluation of procedures, with attention to special problems and the development of instructions specific to particular trips
LJ048-0134|would be a desirable innovation.|would be a desirable innovation.
LJ048-0135|Liaison with local law enforcement authorities.|Liaison with local law enforcement authorities.
LJ048-0136|In the description of the important aspects of the advance preparations,|In the description of the important aspects of the advance preparations,
LJ048-0137|there have been references to the numerous discussions between Secret Service representatives and the Dallas Police Department.|there have been references to the numerous discussions between Secret Service representatives and the Dallas Police Department.
LJ048-0138|The wholehearted support of these local authorities was indispensable to the Service in carrying out its duties.|The wholehearted support of these local authorities was indispensable to the Service in carrying out its duties.
LJ048-0139|The Service had 28 agents participating in the Dallas visit.|The Service had twenty-eight agents participating in the Dallas visit.
LJ048-0140|Agent Lawson's advance planning called for the deployment of almost 600 members of the Dallas Police Department,|Agent Lawson's advance planning called for the deployment of almost six hundred members of the Dallas Police Department,
LJ048-0141|Fire Department, County Sheriff's Department, and the Texas Department of Public Safety.|Fire Department, County Sheriff's Department, and the Texas Department of Public Safety.
LJ048-0142|Despite this dependence on local authorities, which would be substantially the same on a visit by the President to any large city,|Despite this dependence on local authorities, which would be substantially the same on a visit by the President to any large city,
LJ048-0143|the Secret Service did not at the time of the assassination have any established procedure governing its relationships with them.|the Secret Service did not at the time of the assassination have any established procedure governing its relationships with them.
LJ048-0144|It had no prepared checklist of matters to be covered with local police on such visits to metropolitan areas|It had no prepared checklist of matters to be covered with local police on such visits to metropolitan areas
LJ048-0145|and no written description of the role the local police were expected to perform.|and no written description of the role the local police were expected to perform.
LJ048-0146|Discussions with the Dallas authorities and requests made of them were entirely informal.|Discussions with the Dallas authorities and requests made of them were entirely informal.
LJ048-0147|The Commission believes|The Commission believes
LJ048-0148|that a more formal statement of assigned responsibilities, supplemented in each case to reflect the peculiar conditions of each Presidential trip|that a more formal statement of assigned responsibilities, supplemented in each case to reflect the peculiar conditions of each Presidential trip
LJ048-0149|is essential. This would help to eliminate varying interpretations of Secret Service instructions by different local law enforcement representatives. For example,|is essential. This would help to eliminate varying interpretations of Secret Service instructions by different local law enforcement representatives. For example,
LJ048-0150|while the Secret Service representatives in Dallas|while the Secret Service representatives in Dallas
LJ048-0151|asked the police to station guards at each overpass to keep, quote, unauthorized personnel, end quote, off, this term was not defined.|asked the police to station guards at each overpass to keep, quote, unauthorized personnel, end quote, off, this term was not defined.
LJ048-0152|At some overpasses all persons were excluded|At some overpasses all persons were excluded
LJ048-0153|while on the overpass overlooking the assassination scene railroad and yard terminal workmen were permitted to remain under police supervision,|while on the overpass overlooking the assassination scene railroad and yard terminal workmen were permitted to remain under police supervision,
LJ048-0154|as discussed in chapter 3.|as discussed in chapter three.
LJ048-0155|Assistant Chief Batchelor of the Dallas police noted the absence of any formal statement by the Secret Service of specific work assigned to the police|Assistant Chief Batchelor of the Dallas police noted the absence of any formal statement by the Secret Service of specific work assigned to the police
LJ048-0156|and suggested the desirability of such a statement.|and suggested the desirability of such a statement.
LJ048-0157|Agent Lawson agreed that such a procedure would assist him and other agents in fulfilling their responsibilities as advance agents.|Agent Lawson agreed that such a procedure would assist him and other agents in fulfilling their responsibilities as advance agents.
LJ048-0158|Check of buildings along route of motorcade.|Check of buildings along route of motorcade.
LJ048-0159|Agent Lawson did not arrange for a prior inspection of buildings along the motorcade route,|Agent Lawson did not arrange for a prior inspection of buildings along the motorcade route,
LJ048-0160|either by police or by custodians of the buildings, since it was not the usual practice of the Secret Service to do so.|either by police or by custodians of the buildings, since it was not the usual practice of the Secret Service to do so.
LJ048-0161|The Chief of the Service has provided the Commission a detailed explanation of this policy, quote,|The Chief of the Service has provided the Commission a detailed explanation of this policy, quote,
LJ048-0162|Except for inauguration or other parades involving foreign dignitaries accompanied by the President in Washington,|Except for inauguration or other parades involving foreign dignitaries accompanied by the President in Washington,
LJ048-0163|it has not been the practice of the Secret Service to make surveys or checks of buildings along the route of a Presidential motorcade.|it has not been the practice of the Secret Service to make surveys or checks of buildings along the route of a Presidential motorcade.
LJ048-0164|For the inauguration and certain other parades in Washington where the traditional route is known to the public long in advance of the event,|For the inauguration and certain other parades in Washington where the traditional route is known to the public long in advance of the event,
LJ048-0165|buildings along the route can be checked by teams of law enforcement officers, and armed guards are posted along the route as appropriate.|buildings along the route can be checked by teams of law enforcement officers, and armed guards are posted along the route as appropriate.
LJ048-0166|But on out-of-town trips where the route is decided on and made public only a few days in advance,|But on out-of-town trips where the route is decided on and made public only a few days in advance,
LJ048-0167|buildings are not checked either by Secret Service agents or by any other law enforcement officers at the request of the Secret Service.|buildings are not checked either by Secret Service agents or by any other law enforcement officers at the request of the Secret Service.
LJ048-0168|With the number of men available to the Secret Service and the time available, surveys of hundreds of buildings and thousands of windows is not practical.|With the number of men available to the Secret Service and the time available, surveys of hundreds of buildings and thousands of windows is not practical.
LJ048-0169|In Dallas the route selected necessarily involved passing through the principal downtown section between tall buildings.|In Dallas the route selected necessarily involved passing through the principal downtown section between tall buildings.
LJ048-0170|While certain streets thought to be too narrow could be avoided and other choices made,|While certain streets thought to be too narrow could be avoided and other choices made,
LJ048-0171|it was not practical to select a route where the President could not be seen from roofs or windows of buildings.|it was not practical to select a route where the President could not be seen from roofs or windows of buildings.
LJ048-0172|At the two places in Dallas where the President would remain for a period of time, Love Field and the Trade Mart,|At the two places in Dallas where the President would remain for a period of time, Love Field and the Trade Mart,
LJ048-0173|arrangements were made for building and roof security by posting police officers where appropriate.|arrangements were made for building and roof security by posting police officers where appropriate.
LJ048-0174|Similar arrangements for a motorcade of ten miles, including many blocks of tall commercial buildings is not practical.|Similar arrangements for a motorcade of ten miles, including many blocks of tall commercial buildings is not practical.
LJ048-0175|Nor is it practical to prevent people from entering such buildings, or to limit access in every building to those employed or having business there.|Nor is it practical to prevent people from entering such buildings, or to limit access in every building to those employed or having business there.
LJ048-0176|Even if it were possible with a vastly larger force of security officers to do so, many observers have felt|Even if it were possible with a vastly larger force of security officers to do so, many observers have felt
LJ048-0177|that such a procedure would not be consistent with the nature and purpose of the motorcade to let the people see their President and to welcome him to their city.|that such a procedure would not be consistent with the nature and purpose of the motorcade to let the people see their President and to welcome him to their city.
LJ048-0178|In accordance with its regular procedures, no survey or other check was made by the Secret Service, or by any other law enforcement agency at its request,|In accordance with its regular procedures, no survey or other check was made by the Secret Service, or by any other law enforcement agency at its request,
LJ048-0179|of the Texas School Book Depository Building or those employed there prior to the time the President was shot. End quote.|of the Texas School Book Depository Building or those employed there prior to the time the President was shot. End quote.
LJ048-0180|This justification of the Secret Service's standing policy is not persuasive.|This justification of the Secret Service's standing policy is not persuasive.
LJ048-0181|The danger from a concealed sniper on the Dallas trip was of concern to those who had considered the problem.|The danger from a concealed sniper on the Dallas trip was of concern to those who had considered the problem.
LJ048-0182|President Kennedy himself had mentioned it that morning, as had Agent Sorrels when he and Agent Lawson were fixing the motorcade route.|President Kennedy himself had mentioned it that morning, as had Agent Sorrels when he and Agent Lawson were fixing the motorcade route.
LJ048-0183|Admittedly, protective measures cannot ordinarily be taken with regard to all buildings along a motorcade route.|Admittedly, protective measures cannot ordinarily be taken with regard to all buildings along a motorcade route.
LJ048-0184|Levels of risk can be determined, however, as has been confirmed by building surveys made since the assassination for the Department of the Treasury.|Levels of risk can be determined, however, as has been confirmed by building surveys made since the assassination for the Department of the Treasury.
LJ048-0185|An attempt to cover only the most obvious points of possible ambush along the route in Dallas might well have included the Texas School Book Depository Building.|An attempt to cover only the most obvious points of possible ambush along the route in Dallas might well have included the Texas School Book Depository Building.
LJ048-0186|Instead of such advance precautions, the Secret Service depended in part on the efforts of local law enforcement personnel stationed along the route.|Instead of such advance precautions, the Secret Service depended in part on the efforts of local law enforcement personnel stationed along the route.
LJ048-0188|These substitute measures were of limited value. Agent Lawson was unable to state whether he had actually instructed|These substitute measures were of limited value. Agent Lawson was unable to state whether he had actually instructed
LJ048-0189|the Dallas police to scan windows of buildings lining the motorcade route, although it was his usual practice to do so.|the Dallas police to scan windows of buildings lining the motorcade route, although it was his usual practice to do so.
LJ048-0190|If such instructions were in fact given, they were not effectively carried out.|If such instructions were in fact given, they were not effectively carried out.
LJ048-0191|Television films taken of parts of the motorcade by a Dallas television station|Television films taken of parts of the motorcade by a Dallas television station
LJ048-0192|show the foot patrolmen facing the passing motorcade, and not the adjacent crowds and buildings, as the procession passed.|show the foot patrolmen facing the passing motorcade, and not the adjacent crowds and buildings, as the procession passed.
LJ048-0193|Three officers from the Dallas Police Department were assigned to the intersection of Elm and Houston|Three officers from the Dallas Police Department were assigned to the intersection of Elm and Houston
LJ048-0194|during the morning of November 22 prior to the motorcade.|during the morning of November twenty-two prior to the motorcade.
LJ048-0195|All received their instructions early in the morning from Capt. P. W. Lawrence of the traffic division.|All received their instructions early in the morning from Capt. P. W. Lawrence of the traffic division.
LJ048-0196|According to Captain Lawrence, quote,|According to Captain Lawrence, quote,
LJ048-0197|I then told the officers that their primary duty was traffic and crowd control and that they should be alert for any persons who might attempt to throw anything|I then told the officers that their primary duty was traffic and crowd control and that they should be alert for any persons who might attempt to throw anything
LJ048-0198|and although it was not a violation of the law to carry a placard, that they were not to tolerate any actions such as the Stevenson incident|and although it was not a violation of the law to carry a placard, that they were not to tolerate any actions such as the Stevenson incident
LJ048-0199|and arrest any person who might attempt to throw anything or try to get at the President and his party;|and arrest any person who might attempt to throw anything or try to get at the President and his party;
LJ048-0200|paying particular attention to the crowd for any unusual activity.|paying particular attention to the crowd for any unusual activity.
LJ048-0201|I stressed the fact that this was our President and he should be shown every respect due his position and that it was our duty to see that this was done.|I stressed the fact that this was our President and he should be shown every respect due his position and that it was our duty to see that this was done.
LJ048-0202|End quote. Captain Lawrence was not instructed to have his men watch buildings along the motorcade route and did not mention the observation of buildings to them.|End quote. Captain Lawrence was not instructed to have his men watch buildings along the motorcade route and did not mention the observation of buildings to them.
LJ048-0203|The three officers confirm that their primary concern was crowd and traffic control,|The three officers confirm that their primary concern was crowd and traffic control,
LJ048-0204|and that they had no opportunity to scan the windows of the Depository or any other building in the vicinity of Elm and Houston when the motorcade was passing.|and that they had no opportunity to scan the windows of the Depository or any other building in the vicinity of Elm and Houston when the motorcade was passing.
LJ048-0205|They had, however, occasionally observed the windows of buildings in the area before the motorcade arrived, in accordance with their own understanding of their function.|They had, however, occasionally observed the windows of buildings in the area before the motorcade arrived, in accordance with their own understanding of their function.
LJ048-0206|As the motorcade approached Elm Street|As the motorcade approached Elm Street
LJ048-0207|there were several Secret Service agents in it who shared the responsibility of scanning the windows of nearby buildings.|there were several Secret Service agents in it who shared the responsibility of scanning the windows of nearby buildings.
LJ048-0208|Agent Sorrels, riding in the lead car, did observe the Texas School Book Depository Building as he passed by,|Agent Sorrels, riding in the lead car, did observe the Texas School Book Depository Building as he passed by,
LJ048-0209|at least for a sufficient number of seconds to gain a, quote, general impression, end quote, of the lack of any unusual activity.|at least for a sufficient number of seconds to gain a, quote, general impression, end quote, of the lack of any unusual activity.
LJ048-0210|He was handicapped, however, by the fact that he was riding in a closed car whose roof at times obscured his view.|He was handicapped, however, by the fact that he was riding in a closed car whose roof at times obscured his view.
LJ048-0211|Lawson, also in the lead car, did not scan any buildings since an important part of his job was to look backward at the President's car.|Lawson, also in the lead car, did not scan any buildings since an important part of his job was to look backward at the President's car.
LJ048-0212|Lawson stated that he, quote, was looking back a good deal of the time,|Lawson stated that he, quote, was looking back a good deal of the time,
LJ048-0213|watching his car, watching the sides, watching the crowds, giving advice or asking advice from the Chief|watching his car, watching the sides, watching the crowds, giving advice or asking advice from the Chief
LJ048-0214|and also looking ahead to the known hazards like overpasses, under-passes, railroads, et cetera, end quote.|and also looking ahead to the known hazards like overpasses, under-passes, railroads, et cetera, end quote.
LJ048-0215|Agent Roy H. Kellerman, riding in the front seat of the Presidential car,|Agent Roy H. Kellerman, riding in the front seat of the Presidential car,
LJ048-0216|stated that he scanned the Depository Building, but not sufficiently to be alerted by anything in the windows or on the roof.|stated that he scanned the Depository Building, but not sufficiently to be alerted by anything in the windows or on the roof.
LJ048-0217|The agents in the follow-up car also were expected to scan adjacent buildings.|The agents in the follow-up car also were expected to scan adjacent buildings.
LJ048-0218|However, the Commission does not believe that agents stationed in a car behind the Presidential car,|However, the Commission does not believe that agents stationed in a car behind the Presidential car,
LJ048-0219|who must concentrate primarily on the possibility of threats from crowds along the route, provide a significant safeguard against dangers in nearby buildings.|who must concentrate primarily on the possibility of threats from crowds along the route, provide a significant safeguard against dangers in nearby buildings.
LJ048-0220|Conduct of Secret Service agents in Fort Worth on November 22.|Conduct of Secret Service agents in Fort Worth on November twenty-two.
LJ048-0221|In the early morning hours on November 22, 1963,|In the early morning hours on November twenty-two, nineteen sixty-three,
LJ048-0222|in Fort Worth, there occurred a breach of discipline by some members of the Secret Service who were officially traveling with the President.|in Fort Worth, there occurred a breach of discipline by some members of the Secret Service who were officially traveling with the President.
LJ048-0223|After the President had retired at his hotel,|After the President had retired at his hotel,
LJ048-0224|nine agents who were off duty went to the nearby Fort Worth Press Club at midnight or slightly thereafter, expecting to obtain food;|nine agents who were off duty went to the nearby Fort Worth Press Club at midnight or slightly thereafter, expecting to obtain food;
LJ048-0225|they had little opportunity to eat during the day. No food was available at the Press Club.|they had little opportunity to eat during the day. No food was available at the Press Club.
LJ048-0226|All of the agents stayed for a drink of beer, or in several cases, a mixed drink.|All of the agents stayed for a drink of beer, or in several cases, a mixed drink.
LJ048-0227|According to their affidavits, the drinking in no case amounted to more than three glasses of beer or one and a half mixed drinks,|According to their affidavits, the drinking in no case amounted to more than three glasses of beer or one and a half mixed drinks,
LJ048-0228|and others who were present say that no agent was inebriated or acted improperly.|and others who were present say that no agent was inebriated or acted improperly.
LJ048-0229|The statements of the agents involved are supported by statements of members of the Fort Worth press who accompanied or observed them|The statements of the agents involved are supported by statements of members of the Fort Worth press who accompanied or observed them
LJ048-0230|and by a Secret Service investigation.|and by a Secret Service investigation.
LJ048-0231|According to their statements, the agents remained at the Press Club for periods varying from 30 minutes to an hour and a half,|According to their statements, the agents remained at the Press Club for periods varying from thirty minutes to an hour and a half,
LJ048-0232|and the last agent left the Press Club by 2 a.m.|and the last agent left the Press Club by two a.m.
LJ048-0233|Two of the nine agents returned to their rooms. The seven others proceeded to an establishment called the Cellar Coffee House,|Two of the nine agents returned to their rooms. The seven others proceeded to an establishment called the Cellar Coffee House,
LJ048-0234|described by some as a beatnik place and by its manager as, quote, a unique showplace with continuous light entertainment all night|described by some as a beatnik place and by its manager as, quote, a unique showplace with continuous light entertainment all night
LJ048-0235|serving only coffee, fruit juices and no hard liquors or beer, end quote.|serving only coffee, fruit juices and no hard liquors or beer, end quote.
LJ048-0236|There is no indication that any of the agents who visited the Cellar Coffee House had any intoxicating drink at that establishment.|There is no indication that any of the agents who visited the Cellar Coffee House had any intoxicating drink at that establishment.
LJ048-0237|Most of the agents were there from about 1:30 or 1:45 a.m. to about 2:45 or 3 a.m.;|Most of the agents were there from about one:thirty or one:forty-five a.m. to about two:forty-five or three a.m.;
LJ048-0238|one agent was there from 2 until 5 a.m.|one agent was there from two until five a.m.
LJ048-0239|The lobby of the hotel and the areas adjacent to the quarters of the President were guarded during the night|The lobby of the hotel and the areas adjacent to the quarters of the President were guarded during the night
LJ048-0240|by members of the midnight to 8 a.m. shift of the White House detail.|by members of the midnight to eight a.m. shift of the White House detail.
LJ048-0241|These agents were each relieved for a half hour break during the night.|These agents were each relieved for a half hour break during the night.
LJ048-0242|Three members of this shift separately took this opportunity to visit the Cellar Coffee House.|Three members of this shift separately took this opportunity to visit the Cellar Coffee House.
LJ048-0243|Only one stayed as long as a half hour, and none had any beverage there.|Only one stayed as long as a half hour, and none had any beverage there.
LJ048-0244|Chief Rowley testified that agents on duty in such a situation usually stay within the building during their relief,|Chief Rowley testified that agents on duty in such a situation usually stay within the building during their relief,
LJ048-0245|but that their visits to the Cellar were, quote, neither consistent nor inconsistent, end quote, with their duty.|but that their visits to the Cellar were, quote, neither consistent nor inconsistent, end quote, with their duty.
LJ048-0246|Each of the agents who visited the Press Club or the Cellar Coffee House (apart from the three members of the midnight shift)|Each of the agents who visited the Press Club or the Cellar Coffee House (apart from the three members of the midnight shift)
LJ048-0247|had duty assignments beginning no later than 8 a.m. that morning.|had duty assignments beginning no later than eight a.m. that morning.
LJ048-0248|President Kennedy was scheduled to speak across the street from his hotel in Fort Worth at 8:30 a.m.|President Kennedy was scheduled to speak across the street from his hotel in Fort Worth at eight:thirty a.m.
LJ048-0249|and then at a breakfast, after which the entourage would proceed to Dallas.|and then at a breakfast, after which the entourage would proceed to Dallas.
LJ048-0250|In Dallas, one of the nine agents was assigned to assist in security measures at Love Field, and four had protective assignments at the Trade Mart.|In Dallas, one of the nine agents was assigned to assist in security measures at Love Field, and four had protective assignments at the Trade Mart.
LJ048-0251|The remaining four had key responsibilities as members of the complement of the follow-up car in the motorcade.|The remaining four had key responsibilities as members of the complement of the follow-up car in the motorcade.
LJ048-0252|Three of these agents occupied positions on the running boards of the car, and the fourth was seated in the car.|Three of these agents occupied positions on the running boards of the car, and the fourth was seated in the car.
LJ048-0253|The supervisor of each of the off-duty agents who visited the Press Club or the Cellar Coffee House|The supervisor of each of the off-duty agents who visited the Press Club or the Cellar Coffee House
LJ048-0254|advised, in the course of the Secret Service investigation of these events, that each agent reported for duty on time,|advised, in the course of the Secret Service investigation of these events, that each agent reported for duty on time,
LJ048-0255|with full possession of his mental and physical capabilities and entirely ready for the performance of his assigned duties. Chief Rowley testified that,|with full possession of his mental and physical capabilities and entirely ready for the performance of his assigned duties. Chief Rowley testified that,
LJ048-0256|as a result of the investigation he ordered, he was satisfied that each of the agents performed his duties in an entirely satisfactory manner|as a result of the investigation he ordered, he was satisfied that each of the agents performed his duties in an entirely satisfactory manner
LJ048-0257|and that their conduct the night before did not impede their actions on duty|and that their conduct the night before did not impede their actions on duty
LJ048-0258|or in the slightest way prevent them from taking any action that might have averted the tragedy.|or in the slightest way prevent them from taking any action that might have averted the tragedy.
LJ048-0259|However, Chief Rowley did not condone the action of the off-duty agents, particularly since it violated a regulation of the Secret Service,|However, Chief Rowley did not condone the action of the off-duty agents, particularly since it violated a regulation of the Secret Service,
LJ048-0260|which provides, quote, Liquor, use of|which provides, quote, Liquor, use of
LJ048-0261|a. Employees are strictly enjoined to refrain from the use of intoxicating liquor|a. Employees are strictly enjoined to refrain from the use of intoxicating liquor
LJ048-0262|during the hours they are officially employed at their post of duty, or when they may reasonably expect that they may be called upon to perform an official duty.|during the hours they are officially employed at their post of duty, or when they may reasonably expect that they may be called upon to perform an official duty.
LJ048-0263|During entire periods of travel status,|During entire periods of travel status,
LJ048-0264|the special agent is officially employed and should not use liquor, until the completion of all of his official duties for the day,|the special agent is officially employed and should not use liquor, until the completion of all of his official duties for the day,
LJ048-0265|after which time a very moderate use of liquor will not be considered a violation. However, all members of the White House Detail|after which time a very moderate use of liquor will not be considered a violation. However, all members of the White House Detail
LJ048-0266|and special agents cooperating with them on Presidential and similar protective assignments are considered to be subject to call for official duty|and special agents cooperating with them on Presidential and similar protective assignments are considered to be subject to call for official duty
LJ048-0267|at any time while in travel status.|at any time while in travel status.
LJ048-0268|Therefore, the use of intoxicating liquor of any kind, including beer and wine, by members of the White House Detail|Therefore, the use of intoxicating liquor of any kind, including beer and wine, by members of the White House Detail
LJ048-0269|and special agents cooperating with them, or by special agents on similar assignments, while they are in a travel status, is prohibited. End quote.|and special agents cooperating with them, or by special agents on similar assignments, while they are in a travel status, is prohibited. End quote.
LJ048-0270|The regulations provide further that, quote, violation or slight disregard, end quote, of these provisions, quote,|The regulations provide further that, quote, violation or slight disregard, end quote, of these provisions, quote,
LJ048-0272|Chief Rowley testified|Chief Rowley testified
LJ048-0273|that under ordinary circumstances he would have taken disciplinary action against those agents who had been drinking in clear violation of the regulation.|that under ordinary circumstances he would have taken disciplinary action against those agents who had been drinking in clear violation of the regulation.
LJ048-0274|However, he felt that any disciplinary action might have given rise|However, he felt that any disciplinary action might have given rise
LJ048-0275|to an inference that the violation of the regulation had contributed to the tragic events of November 22.|to an inference that the violation of the regulation had contributed to the tragic events of November twenty-two.
LJ048-0276|Since he was convinced that this was not the case, he believed that it would be unfair to the agents and their families to take explicit disciplinary measures.|Since he was convinced that this was not the case, he believed that it would be unfair to the agents and their families to take explicit disciplinary measures.
LJ048-0277|He felt that each agent recognized the seriousness of the infraction and that there was no danger of a repetition.|He felt that each agent recognized the seriousness of the infraction and that there was no danger of a repetition.
LJ048-0278|The Commission recognizes that the responsibilities of members of the White House detail of the Secret Service are arduous.|The Commission recognizes that the responsibilities of members of the White House detail of the Secret Service are arduous.
LJ048-0279|They work long, hard hours, under very great strain, and must travel frequently.|They work long, hard hours, under very great strain, and must travel frequently.
LJ048-0280|It might seem harsh to circumscribe their opportunities for relaxation.|It might seem harsh to circumscribe their opportunities for relaxation.
LJ048-0281|Yet their role of protecting the President is so important to the well-being of the country|Yet their role of protecting the President is so important to the well-being of the country
LJ048-0282|that it is reasonable to expect them to meet very high standards of personal conduct,|that it is reasonable to expect them to meet very high standards of personal conduct,
LJ048-0283|so that nothing can interfere with their bringing to their task the finest qualities and maximum resources of mind and body.|so that nothing can interfere with their bringing to their task the finest qualities and maximum resources of mind and body.
LJ048-0284|This is the salutary goal to which the Secret Service regulation is directed,|This is the salutary goal to which the Secret Service regulation is directed,
LJ048-0285|when it absolutely forbids drinking by any agent accompanying the President on a trip.|when it absolutely forbids drinking by any agent accompanying the President on a trip.
LJ048-0286|Nor is this goal served when agents remain out until early morning hours, and lose the opportunity to get a reasonable amount of sleep.|Nor is this goal served when agents remain out until early morning hours, and lose the opportunity to get a reasonable amount of sleep.
LJ048-0287|It is conceivable that those men who had little sleep, and who had consumed alcoholic beverages, even in limited quantities,|It is conceivable that those men who had little sleep, and who had consumed alcoholic beverages, even in limited quantities,
LJ048-0288|might have been more alert in the Dallas motorcade if they had retired promptly in Fort Worth.|might have been more alert in the Dallas motorcade if they had retired promptly in Fort Worth.
LJ048-0289|However, there is no evidence that these men failed to take any action in Dallas within their power that would have averted the tragedy.|However, there is no evidence that these men failed to take any action in Dallas within their power that would have averted the tragedy.
LJ049-0001|Report of the President's Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy.|Report of the President's Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy.
LJ049-0002|The Warren Commission Report. By The President's Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy.|The Warren Commission Report. By The President's Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy.
LJ049-0003|Chapter 8. The Protection of the President. Part 4.|Chapter eight. The Protection of the President. Part four.
LJ049-0004|The motorcade in Dallas.|The motorcade in Dallas.
LJ049-0005|Rigorous security precautions had been arranged at Love Field with the local law enforcement authorities by Agents Sorrels and Lawson.|Rigorous security precautions had been arranged at Love Field with the local law enforcement authorities by Agents Sorrels and Lawson.
LJ049-0006|These precautions included reserving a ceremonial area for the Presidential party,|These precautions included reserving a ceremonial area for the Presidential party,
LJ049-0007|stationing police on the rooftops of all buildings overlooking the reception area,|stationing police on the rooftops of all buildings overlooking the reception area,
LJ049-0008|and detailing police in civilian clothes to be scattered throughout the sizable crowd.|and detailing police in civilian clothes to be scattered throughout the sizable crowd.
LJ049-0009|When President and Mrs. Kennedy shook hands with members of the public along the fences surrounding the reception area, they were closely guarded by Secret Service agents|When President and Mrs. Kennedy shook hands with members of the public along the fences surrounding the reception area, they were closely guarded by Secret Service agents
LJ049-0010|who responded to the unplanned event with dispatch.|who responded to the unplanned event with dispatch.
LJ049-0011|As described in chapter 2, the President directed that his car stop on two occasions during the motorcade so that he could greet members of the public.|As described in chapter two, the President directed that his car stop on two occasions during the motorcade so that he could greet members of the public.
LJ049-0012|At these stops, agents from the Presidential follow-up car stood between the President and the public,|At these stops, agents from the Presidential follow-up car stood between the President and the public,
LJ049-0013|and on one occasion Agent Kellerman left the front seat of the President's car to take a similar position.|and on one occasion Agent Kellerman left the front seat of the President's car to take a similar position.
LJ049-0014|The Commission regards such impromptu stops as presenting an unnecessary danger,|The Commission regards such impromptu stops as presenting an unnecessary danger,
LJ049-0015|but finds that the Secret Service agents did all that could have been done to take protective measures.|but finds that the Secret Service agents did all that could have been done to take protective measures.
LJ049-0016|The Presidential limousine.|The Presidential limousine.
LJ049-0017|The limousine used by President Kennedy in Dallas was a convertible with a detachable, rigid plastic "bubble" top|The limousine used by President Kennedy in Dallas was a convertible with a detachable, rigid plastic "bubble" top
LJ049-0018|which was neither bulletproof nor bullet resistant.|which was neither bulletproof nor bullet resistant.
LJ049-0019|The last Presidential vehicle with any protection against small-arms fire left the White House in 1953.|The last Presidential vehicle with any protection against small-arms fire left the White House in nineteen fifty-three.
LJ049-0020|It was not then replaced because the state of the art did not permit the development of a bulletproof top of sufficiently light weight|It was not then replaced because the state of the art did not permit the development of a bulletproof top of sufficiently light weight
LJ049-0021|to permit its removal on those occasions when the President wished to ride in an open car.|to permit its removal on those occasions when the President wished to ride in an open car.
LJ049-0022|The Secret Service believed that it was very doubtful that any President would ride regularly in a vehicle with a fixed top, even though transparent.|The Secret Service believed that it was very doubtful that any President would ride regularly in a vehicle with a fixed top, even though transparent.
LJ049-0023|Since the assassination, the Secret Service, with the assistance of other Federal agencies and of private industry,|Since the assassination, the Secret Service, with the assistance of other Federal agencies and of private industry,
LJ049-0024|has developed a vehicle for the better protection of the President.|has developed a vehicle for the better protection of the President.
LJ049-0025|Access to passenger compartment of Presidential car.|Access to passenger compartment of Presidential car.
LJ049-0026|On occasion the Secret Service has been permitted to have an agent riding in the passenger compartment with the President.|On occasion the Secret Service has been permitted to have an agent riding in the passenger compartment with the President.
LJ049-0027|Presidents have made it clear, however, that they did not favor this or any other arrangement which interferes with the privacy of the President and his guests.|Presidents have made it clear, however, that they did not favor this or any other arrangement which interferes with the privacy of the President and his guests.
LJ049-0028|The Secret Service has therefore suggested this practice only on extraordinary occasions.|The Secret Service has therefore suggested this practice only on extraordinary occasions.
LJ049-0029|Without attempting to prescribe or recommend specific measures which should be employed for the future protection of Presidents,|Without attempting to prescribe or recommend specific measures which should be employed for the future protection of Presidents,
LJ049-0030|the Commission does believe that there are aspects of the protective measures employed in the motorcade at Dallas which deserve special comment.|the Commission does believe that there are aspects of the protective measures employed in the motorcade at Dallas which deserve special comment.
LJ049-0032|had no special design or equipment which would have permitted the Secret Service agent riding in the driver's compartment|had no special design or equipment which would have permitted the Secret Service agent riding in the driver's compartment
LJ049-0033|to move into the passenger section without hindrance or delay. Had the vehicle been so designed it is possible that an agent riding in the front seat|to move into the passenger section without hindrance or delay. Had the vehicle been so designed it is possible that an agent riding in the front seat
LJ049-0034|could have reached the President in time to protect him from the second and fatal shot to hit the President.|could have reached the President in time to protect him from the second and fatal shot to hit the President.
LJ049-0035|However, such access to the President was interfered with both by the metal bar some 15 inches above the back of the front seat|However, such access to the President was interfered with both by the metal bar some fifteen inches above the back of the front seat
LJ049-0036|and by the passengers in the jump seats.|and by the passengers in the jump seats.
LJ049-0037|In contrast, the Vice Presidential vehicle, although not specially designed for that purpose,|In contrast, the Vice Presidential vehicle, although not specially designed for that purpose,
LJ049-0038|had no passenger in a jump seat between Agent Youngblood and Vice President Johnson to interfere with Agent Youngblood's ability|had no passenger in a jump seat between Agent Youngblood and Vice President Johnson to interfere with Agent Youngblood's ability
LJ049-0039|to take a protective position in the passenger compartment before the third shot was fired.|to take a protective position in the passenger compartment before the third shot was fired.
LJ049-0040|The assassination suggests that it would have been of prime importance|The assassination suggests that it would have been of prime importance
LJ049-0041|in the protection of the President if the Presidential car permitted immediate access to the President by a Secret Service agent at the first sign of danger.|in the protection of the President if the Presidential car permitted immediate access to the President by a Secret Service agent at the first sign of danger.
LJ049-0042|At that time the agents on the framing boards of the follow-up car were expected to perform such a function.|At that time the agents on the framing boards of the follow-up car were expected to perform such a function.
LJ049-0043|However, these agents could not reach the President's car when it was traveling at an appreciable rate of speed.|However, these agents could not reach the President's car when it was traveling at an appreciable rate of speed.
LJ049-0044|Even if the car is traveling more slowly, the delay involved in reaching the President may be crucial.|Even if the car is traveling more slowly, the delay involved in reaching the President may be crucial.
LJ049-0045|It is clear that at the time of the shots in Dallas, Agent Clinton J. Hill leaped to the President's rescue as quickly as humanly possible.|It is clear that at the time of the shots in Dallas, Agent Clinton J. Hill leaped to the President's rescue as quickly as humanly possible.
LJ049-0046|Even so, analysis of the motion picture films taken by amateur photographer Zapruder|Even so, analysis of the motion picture films taken by amateur photographer Zapruder
LJ049-0047|reveals that Hill first placed his hand on the Presidential car at frame 343, 30 frames|reveals that Hill first placed his hand on the Presidential car at frame three forty-three, thirty frames
LJ049-0048|and therefore approximately 1.6 seconds after the President was shot in the head.|and therefore approximately one point six seconds after the President was shot in the head.
LJ049-0049|About 3.7 seconds after the President received this wound,|About three point seven seconds after the President received this wound,
LJ049-0050|Hill had both feet on the car and was climbing aboard to assist President and Mrs. Kennedy.|Hill had both feet on the car and was climbing aboard to assist President and Mrs. Kennedy.
LJ049-0051|Planning for motorcade contingencies.|Planning for motorcade contingencies.
LJ049-0052|In response to inquiry by the Commission regarding the instructions to agents in a motorcade|In response to inquiry by the Commission regarding the instructions to agents in a motorcade
LJ049-0053|of emergency procedures to be taken in a contingency such as that which actually occurred, the Secret Service responded, quote,|of emergency procedures to be taken in a contingency such as that which actually occurred, the Secret Service responded, quote,
LJ049-0054|The Secret Service has consistently followed two general principles in emergencies involving the President.|The Secret Service has consistently followed two general principles in emergencies involving the President.
LJ049-0055|All agents are so instructed.|All agents are so instructed.
LJ049-0056|The first duty of the agents in the motorcade is to attempt to cover the President as closely as possible and practicable|The first duty of the agents in the motorcade is to attempt to cover the President as closely as possible and practicable
LJ049-0057|and to shield him by attempting to place themselves between the President and any source of danger.|and to shield him by attempting to place themselves between the President and any source of danger.
LJ049-0058|Secondly, agents are instructed to remove the President as quickly as possible from known or impending danger.|Secondly, agents are instructed to remove the President as quickly as possible from known or impending danger.
LJ049-0060|but to consider any untoward circumstances as serious and to afford the President maximum protection at all times.|but to consider any untoward circumstances as serious and to afford the President maximum protection at all times.
LJ049-0061|No responsibility rests upon those agents near the President for the identification or arrest of any assassin or an attacker.|No responsibility rests upon those agents near the President for the identification or arrest of any assassin or an attacker.
LJ049-0062|Their primary responsibility is to stay with and protect the President.|Their primary responsibility is to stay with and protect the President.
LJ049-0063|Beyond these two principles the Secret Service believes a detailed contingency or emergency plan is not feasible|Beyond these two principles the Secret Service believes a detailed contingency or emergency plan is not feasible
LJ049-0064|because the variations possible preclude effective planning.|because the variations possible preclude effective planning.
LJ049-0065|A number of steps are taken, however, to permit appropriate steps to be taken in an emergency.|A number of steps are taken, however, to permit appropriate steps to be taken in an emergency.
LJ049-0066|For instance, the lead car always is manned by Secret Service agents familiar with the area and with local law enforcement officials;|For instance, the lead car always is manned by Secret Service agents familiar with the area and with local law enforcement officials;
LJ049-0067|the radio net in use in motorcades is elaborate and permits a number of different means of communication with various local points.|the radio net in use in motorcades is elaborate and permits a number of different means of communication with various local points.
LJ049-0068|A doctor is in the motorcade.|A doctor is in the motorcade.
LJ049-0069|This basic approach to the problem of planning for emergencies is sound.|This basic approach to the problem of planning for emergencies is sound.
LJ049-0070|Any effort to prepare detailed contingency plans might well have the undesirable effect of inhibiting quick and imaginative responses.|Any effort to prepare detailed contingency plans might well have the undesirable effect of inhibiting quick and imaginative responses.
LJ049-0071|If the advance preparation is thorough, and the protective devices and techniques employed are sound,|If the advance preparation is thorough, and the protective devices and techniques employed are sound,
LJ049-0072|those in command should be able to direct the response appropriate to the emergency. The Commission finds that the Secret Service agents in the motorcade|those in command should be able to direct the response appropriate to the emergency. The Commission finds that the Secret Service agents in the motorcade
LJ049-0073|who were immediately responsible for the President's safety reacted promptly at the time the shots were fired.|who were immediately responsible for the President's safety reacted promptly at the time the shots were fired.
LJ049-0074|Their actions demonstrate that the President and the Nation can expect courage and devotion to duty from the agents of the Secret Service.|Their actions demonstrate that the President and the Nation can expect courage and devotion to duty from the agents of the Secret Service.
LJ049-0075|Recommendations.|Recommendations.
LJ049-0076|The Commission's review of the provisions for Presidential protection at the time of President Kennedy's trip to Dallas demonstrates the need for substantial improvements.|The Commission's review of the provisions for Presidential protection at the time of President Kennedy's trip to Dallas demonstrates the need for substantial improvements.
LJ049-0077|Since the assassination, the Secret Service and the Department of the Treasury|Since the assassination, the Secret Service and the Department of the Treasury
LJ049-0078|have properly taken the initiative in reexamining major aspects of Presidential protection.|have properly taken the initiative in reexamining major aspects of Presidential protection.
LJ049-0079|Many changes have already been made and others are contemplated, some of them in response to the Commission's questions and informal suggestions.|Many changes have already been made and others are contemplated, some of them in response to the Commission's questions and informal suggestions.
LJ049-0080|Assassination a Federal Crime|Assassination a Federal Crime
LJ049-0081|There was no Federal criminal jurisdiction over the assassination of President Kennedy.|There was no Federal criminal jurisdiction over the assassination of President Kennedy.
LJ049-0082|Had there been reason to believe that the assassination was the result of a conspiracy, Federal jurisdiction could have been asserted;|Had there been reason to believe that the assassination was the result of a conspiracy, Federal jurisdiction could have been asserted;
LJ049-0083|it has long been a Federal crime to conspire to injure any Federal officer, on account of, or while he is engaged in, the lawful discharge of the duties of his office.|it has long been a Federal crime to conspire to injure any Federal officer, on account of, or while he is engaged in, the lawful discharge of the duties of his office.
LJ049-0084|Murder of the President has never been covered by Federal law, however, so that once it became reasonably clear that the killing was the act of a single person,|Murder of the President has never been covered by Federal law, however, so that once it became reasonably clear that the killing was the act of a single person,
LJ049-0085|the State of Texas had exclusive jurisdiction.|the State of Texas had exclusive jurisdiction.
LJ049-0086|It is anomalous that Congress has legislated in other ways touching upon the safety of the Chief Executive or other Federal officers,|It is anomalous that Congress has legislated in other ways touching upon the safety of the Chief Executive or other Federal officers,
LJ049-0087|without making an attack on the President a crime. Threatening harm to the President is a Federal offense,|without making an attack on the President a crime. Threatening harm to the President is a Federal offense,
LJ049-0088|as is advocacy of the overthrow of the Government by the assassination of any of its officers.|as is advocacy of the overthrow of the Government by the assassination of any of its officers.
LJ049-0089|The murder of Federal judges, U.S. attorneys and marshals, and a number of other specifically designated|The murder of Federal judges, U.S. attorneys and marshals, and a number of other specifically designated
LJ049-0090|Federal law enforcement officers is a Federal crime.|Federal law enforcement officers is a Federal crime.
LJ049-0091|Equally anomalous are statutory provisions which specifically authorize the Secret Service to protect the President,|Equally anomalous are statutory provisions which specifically authorize the Secret Service to protect the President,
LJ049-0092|without authorizing it to arrest anyone who harms him. The same provisions authorize the Service to arrest without warrant|without authorizing it to arrest anyone who harms him. The same provisions authorize the Service to arrest without warrant
LJ049-0093|persons committing certain offenses, including counterfeiting and certain frauds involving Federal checks or securities.|persons committing certain offenses, including counterfeiting and certain frauds involving Federal checks or securities.
LJ049-0094|The Commission agrees with the Secret Service that it should be authorized to make arrests without warrant|The Commission agrees with the Secret Service that it should be authorized to make arrests without warrant
LJ049-0095|for all offenses within its jurisdiction, as are FBI agents and Federal marshals.|for all offenses within its jurisdiction, as are FBI agents and Federal marshals.
LJ049-0096|There have been a number of efforts to make assassination a Federal crime, particularly after the assassination of President McKinley|There have been a number of efforts to make assassination a Federal crime, particularly after the assassination of President McKinley
LJ049-0097|and the attempt on the life of President-elect Franklin D. Roosevelt.|and the attempt on the life of President-elect Franklin D. Roosevelt.
LJ049-0098|In 1902 bills passed both Houses of Congress but failed of enactment when the Senate refused to accept the conference report.|In nineteen oh two bills passed both Houses of Congress but failed of enactment when the Senate refused to accept the conference report.
LJ049-0099|A number of bills were introduced immediately following the assassination of President Kennedy.|A number of bills were introduced immediately following the assassination of President Kennedy.
LJ049-0100|The Commission recommends to the Congress that it adopt legislation which would:|The Commission recommends to the Congress that it adopt legislation which would:
LJ049-0101|Punish the murder or manslaughter of, attempt or conspiracy to murder, kidnaping of and assault upon|Punish the murder or manslaughter of, attempt or conspiracy to murder, kidnaping of and assault upon
LJ049-0102|the President, Vice President, or other officer next in the order of succession to the Office of President, the President-elect and the Vice-President-elect,|the President, Vice President, or other officer next in the order of succession to the Office of President, the President-elect and the Vice-President-elect,
LJ049-0103|whether or not the act is committed while the victim is in the performance of his official duties or on account of such performance.|whether or not the act is committed while the victim is in the performance of his official duties or on account of such performance.
LJ049-0104|Such a statute would cover the President and Vice President or, in the absence of a Vice President, the person next in order of succession.|Such a statute would cover the President and Vice President or, in the absence of a Vice President, the person next in order of succession.
LJ049-0105|During the period between election and inauguration, the President-elect and Vice-President-elect would also be covered.|During the period between election and inauguration, the President-elect and Vice-President-elect would also be covered.
LJ049-0106|Restricting the coverage in this way would avoid unnecessary controversy over the inclusion or exclusion of other officials who are in the order of succession|Restricting the coverage in this way would avoid unnecessary controversy over the inclusion or exclusion of other officials who are in the order of succession
LJ049-0107|or who hold important governmental posts.|or who hold important governmental posts.
LJ049-0108|In addition, the restriction would probably eliminate a need for the requirement which has been urged as necessary for the exercise of Federal power,|In addition, the restriction would probably eliminate a need for the requirement which has been urged as necessary for the exercise of Federal power,
LJ049-0109|that the hostile act occur while the victim is engaged in or because of the performance of official duties.|that the hostile act occur while the victim is engaged in or because of the performance of official duties.
LJ049-0110|The governmental consequences of assassination of one of the specified officials give the United States ample power to act for its own protection.|The governmental consequences of assassination of one of the specified officials give the United States ample power to act for its own protection.
LJ049-0111|The activities of the victim at the time an assassination occurs and the motive for the assassination|The activities of the victim at the time an assassination occurs and the motive for the assassination
LJ049-0112|bear no relationship to the injury to the United States which follows from the act.|bear no relationship to the injury to the United States which follows from the act.
LJ049-0113|This point was ably made in the 1902 debate by Senator George F. Hoar, the sponsor of the Senate bill, quote,|This point was ably made in the nineteen oh two debate by Senator George F. Hoar, the sponsor of the Senate bill, quote,
LJ049-0114|what this bill means to punish is the crime of interruption of the Government of the United States and the destruction of its security by striking down the life|what this bill means to punish is the crime of interruption of the Government of the United States and the destruction of its security by striking down the life
LJ049-0115|of the person who is actually in the exercise of the executive power, or|of the person who is actually in the exercise of the executive power, or
LJ049-0116|of such persons as have been constitutionally and lawfully provided to succeed thereto in case of a vacancy. It is important to this country|of such persons as have been constitutionally and lawfully provided to succeed thereto in case of a vacancy. It is important to this country
LJ049-0117|that the interruption shall not take place for an hour, end quote.|that the interruption shall not take place for an hour, end quote.
LJ049-0118|Enactment of this statute would mean that the investigation of any of the acts covered and of the possibility of a further attempt|Enactment of this statute would mean that the investigation of any of the acts covered and of the possibility of a further attempt
LJ049-0119|would be conducted by Federal law enforcement officials, in particular, the FBI with the assistance of the Secret Service.|would be conducted by Federal law enforcement officials, in particular, the FBI with the assistance of the Secret Service.
LJ049-0120|At present, Federal agencies participate only upon the sufferance of the local authorities.|At present, Federal agencies participate only upon the sufferance of the local authorities.
LJ049-0121|While the police work of the Dallas authorities in the early identification and apprehension of Oswald was both efficient and prompt,|While the police work of the Dallas authorities in the early identification and apprehension of Oswald was both efficient and prompt,
LJ049-0122|FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover, who strongly supports such legislation, testified that the absence of clear Federal jurisdiction|FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover, who strongly supports such legislation, testified that the absence of clear Federal jurisdiction
LJ049-0123|over the assassination of President Kennedy led to embarrassment and confusion in the subsequent investigation by Federal and local authorities.|over the assassination of President Kennedy led to embarrassment and confusion in the subsequent investigation by Federal and local authorities.
LJ049-0124|In addition, the proposed legislation will insure|In addition, the proposed legislation will insure
LJ049-0125|that any suspects who are arrested will be Federal prisoners, subject to Federal protection from vigilante justice and other threats.|that any suspects who are arrested will be Federal prisoners, subject to Federal protection from vigilante justice and other threats.
LJ049-0126|Committee of Cabinet Officers. As our Government has become more complex,|Committee of Cabinet Officers. As our Government has become more complex,
LJ049-0127|agencies other than the Secret Service have become involved in phases of the overall problem of protecting our national leaders.|agencies other than the Secret Service have become involved in phases of the overall problem of protecting our national leaders.
LJ049-0128|The FBI is the major domestic investigating agency of the United States,|The FBI is the major domestic investigating agency of the United States,
LJ049-0129|while the CIA has the primary responsibility for collecting intelligence overseas to supplement information acquired by the Department of State.|while the CIA has the primary responsibility for collecting intelligence overseas to supplement information acquired by the Department of State.
LJ049-0130|The Secret Service must rely in large part|The Secret Service must rely in large part
LJ049-0132|The Commission believes that it is necessary to improve the cooperation among these agencies|The Commission believes that it is necessary to improve the cooperation among these agencies
LJ049-0133|and to emphasize that the task of Presidential protection is one of broad national concern.|and to emphasize that the task of Presidential protection is one of broad national concern.
LJ049-0134|The Commission suggests that consideration might be given to assigning to a Cabinet-level committee or the National Security Council|The Commission suggests that consideration might be given to assigning to a Cabinet-level committee or the National Security Council
LJ049-0135|(which is responsible for advising the President respecting the coordination|(which is responsible for advising the President respecting the coordination
LJ049-0136|of departmental policies relating to the national security) the responsibility to review and oversee the protective activities of the Secret Service|of departmental policies relating to the national security) the responsibility to review and oversee the protective activities of the Secret Service
LJ049-0137|and the other Federal agencies that assist in safeguarding the President. The Committee should include the Secretary of the Treasury and the Attorney General,|and the other Federal agencies that assist in safeguarding the President. The Committee should include the Secretary of the Treasury and the Attorney General,
LJ049-0138|and, if the Council is used, arrangements should be made for the attendance of the Secretary of the Treasury|and, if the Council is used, arrangements should be made for the attendance of the Secretary of the Treasury
LJ049-0139|and the Attorney General at any meetings which are concerned with Presidential protection.|and the Attorney General at any meetings which are concerned with Presidential protection.
LJ049-0140|The Council already includes, in addition to the President and Vice President, the Secretaries of State and Defense and has a competent staff.|The Council already includes, in addition to the President and Vice President, the Secretaries of State and Defense and has a competent staff.
LJ049-0141|The foremost assignment of the Committee would be to insure that the maximum resources of the Federal Government are fully engaged in the job of protecting the President,|The foremost assignment of the Committee would be to insure that the maximum resources of the Federal Government are fully engaged in the job of protecting the President,
LJ049-0142|by defining responsibilities clearly and overseeing their execution.|by defining responsibilities clearly and overseeing their execution.
LJ049-0143|Major needs of personnel or other resources might be met more easily on its recommendation than they have been in the past.|Major needs of personnel or other resources might be met more easily on its recommendation than they have been in the past.
LJ049-0144|The Committee would be able to provide guidance in defining the general nature of domestic and foreign dangers to Presidential security.|The Committee would be able to provide guidance in defining the general nature of domestic and foreign dangers to Presidential security.
LJ049-0145|As improvements are recommended for the advance detection of potential threats to the President, it could act as a final review board.|As improvements are recommended for the advance detection of potential threats to the President, it could act as a final review board.
LJ049-0146|The expert assistance and resources which it could draw upon would be particularly desirable in this complex and sensitive area.|The expert assistance and resources which it could draw upon would be particularly desirable in this complex and sensitive area.
LJ049-0147|This arrangement would provide a continuing high-level contact for agencies that may wish to consult respecting particular protective measures.|This arrangement would provide a continuing high-level contact for agencies that may wish to consult respecting particular protective measures.
LJ049-0148|For various reasons the Secret Service has functioned largely as an informal part of the White House staff, with the result|For various reasons the Secret Service has functioned largely as an informal part of the White House staff, with the result
LJ049-0149|that it has been unable, as a practical matter, to exercise sufficient influence over the security precautions which surround Presidential activities.|that it has been unable, as a practical matter, to exercise sufficient influence over the security precautions which surround Presidential activities.
LJ049-0150|A Cabinet-level committee which is actively concerned with these problems would be able to discuss these matters more effectively with the President.|A Cabinet-level committee which is actively concerned with these problems would be able to discuss these matters more effectively with the President.
LJ049-0151|Responsibilities for Presidential Protection|Responsibilities for Presidential Protection
LJ049-0152|The assignment of the responsibility of protecting the President to an agency of the Department of the Treasury was largely an historical accident.|The assignment of the responsibility of protecting the President to an agency of the Department of the Treasury was largely an historical accident.
LJ049-0153|The Secret Service was organized as a division of the Department of the Treasury in 1865, to deal with counterfeiting.|The Secret Service was organized as a division of the Department of the Treasury in eighteen sixty-five, to deal with counterfeiting.
LJ049-0154|In 1894,|In eighteen ninety-four,
LJ049-0155|while investigating a plot to assassinate President Cleveland, the Service assigned a small protective detail of agents to the White House.|while investigating a plot to assassinate President Cleveland, the Service assigned a small protective detail of agents to the White House.
LJ049-0156|Secret Service men accompanied the President and his family to their vacation home in Massachusetts|Secret Service men accompanied the President and his family to their vacation home in Massachusetts
LJ049-0157|and special details protected him in Washington, on trips, and at special functions.|and special details protected him in Washington, on trips, and at special functions.
LJ049-0158|These informal and part-time arrangements led to more systematic protection in 1902, after the assassination of President McKinley;|These informal and part-time arrangements led to more systematic protection in nineteen oh two, after the assassination of President McKinley;
LJ049-0159|the Secret Service, then the only Federal investigative agency, assumed full-time responsibility for the safety of the President.|the Secret Service, then the only Federal investigative agency, assumed full-time responsibility for the safety of the President.
LJ049-0160|Since that time, the Secret Service has had and exercised responsibility for the physical protection of the President|Since that time, the Secret Service has had and exercised responsibility for the physical protection of the President
LJ049-0161|and also for the preventive investigation of potential threats against the President.|and also for the preventive investigation of potential threats against the President.
LJ049-0162|Although the Secret Service has had the primary responsibility for the protection of the President,|Although the Secret Service has had the primary responsibility for the protection of the President,
LJ049-0163|the FBI, which was established within the Department of Justice in 1908, has had in recent years an increasingly important role to play.|the FBI, which was established within the Department of Justice in nineteen oh eight, has had in recent years an increasingly important role to play.
LJ049-0164|In the appropriations of the FBI there has recurred annually an item for the, quote, protection of the person of the President of the United States, end quote,|In the appropriations of the FBI there has recurred annually an item for the, quote, protection of the person of the President of the United States, end quote,
LJ049-0165|which first appeared in the appropriation of the Department of Justice in 1910 under the heading, quote, Miscellaneous Objects, end quote.|which first appeared in the appropriation of the Department of Justice in nineteen ten under the heading, quote, Miscellaneous Objects, end quote.
LJ049-0166|Although the FBI is not charged with the physical protection of the President, it does have an assignment, as do other Government agencies,|Although the FBI is not charged with the physical protection of the President, it does have an assignment, as do other Government agencies,
LJ049-0167|in the field of preventive investigation in regard to the President's security.|in the field of preventive investigation in regard to the President's security.
LJ049-0168|As discussed above, the Bureau has attempted to meet its responsibilities in this field by spelling out in its Handbook|As discussed above, the Bureau has attempted to meet its responsibilities in this field by spelling out in its Handbook
LJ049-0169|the procedures which its agents are to follow in connection with information received, quote,|the procedures which its agents are to follow in connection with information received, quote,
LJ049-0170|indicating the possibility of an attempt against the person or safety of the President, end quote, or other protected persons.|indicating the possibility of an attempt against the person or safety of the President, end quote, or other protected persons.
LJ049-0171|With two Federal agencies operating in the same general field of preventive investigation,|With two Federal agencies operating in the same general field of preventive investigation,
LJ049-0172|questions inevitably arise as to the scope of each agency's authority and responsibility.|questions inevitably arise as to the scope of each agency's authority and responsibility.
LJ049-0173|As the testimony of J. Edgar Hoover and other Bureau officials revealed, the FBI did not believe that its directive required the Bureau|As the testimony of J. Edgar Hoover and other Bureau officials revealed, the FBI did not believe that its directive required the Bureau
LJ049-0175|before the President reached Dallas.|before the President reached Dallas.
LJ049-0176|On the other hand, the Secret Service had no knowledge whatever of Oswald, his background, or his employment at the Book Depository,|On the other hand, the Secret Service had no knowledge whatever of Oswald, his background, or his employment at the Book Depository,
LJ049-0177|and Robert I. Bouck, who was in charge of the Protective Research Section of the Secret Service, believed that the accumulation of the facts known to the FBI|and Robert I. Bouck, who was in charge of the Protective Research Section of the Secret Service, believed that the accumulation of the facts known to the FBI
LJ049-0178|should have constituted a sufficient basis to warn the Secret Service of the Oswald risk.|should have constituted a sufficient basis to warn the Secret Service of the Oswald risk.
LJ049-0179|The Commission believes that both the FBI and the Secret Service have too narrowly construed their respective responsibilities.|The Commission believes that both the FBI and the Secret Service have too narrowly construed their respective responsibilities.
LJ049-0180|The Commission has the impression|The Commission has the impression
LJ049-0181|that too much emphasis is placed by both on the investigation of specific threats by individuals and not enough on dangers from other sources.|that too much emphasis is placed by both on the investigation of specific threats by individuals and not enough on dangers from other sources.
LJ049-0182|In addition, the Commission has concluded that the Secret Service particularly tends to be the passive recipient of information|In addition, the Commission has concluded that the Secret Service particularly tends to be the passive recipient of information
LJ049-0183|regarding such threats and that its Protective Research Section is not adequately staffed or equipped|regarding such threats and that its Protective Research Section is not adequately staffed or equipped
LJ049-0184|to conduct the wider investigative work that is required today for the security of the President.|to conduct the wider investigative work that is required today for the security of the President.
LJ049-0185|During the period the Commission was giving thought to this situation,|During the period the Commission was giving thought to this situation,
LJ049-0186|the Commission received a number of proposals designed to improve current arrangements for protecting the President.|the Commission received a number of proposals designed to improve current arrangements for protecting the President.
LJ049-0187|These proposals included suggestions to locate exclusive responsibility for all phases of the work|These proposals included suggestions to locate exclusive responsibility for all phases of the work
LJ049-0188|in one or another Government agency, to clarify the division of authority between the agencies involved, and to retain the existing system|in one or another Government agency, to clarify the division of authority between the agencies involved, and to retain the existing system
LJ049-0189|but expand both the scope and the operations of the existing agencies, particularly those of the Secret Service and the FBI.|but expand both the scope and the operations of the existing agencies, particularly those of the Secret Service and the FBI.
LJ049-0190|It has been pointed out that the FBI, as our chief investigative agency,|It has been pointed out that the FBI, as our chief investigative agency,
LJ049-0191|is properly manned and equipped to carry on extensive information gathering functions within the United States.|is properly manned and equipped to carry on extensive information gathering functions within the United States.
LJ049-0192|It was also suggested that it would take a substantial period of time for the Secret Service to build up the experience and skills necessary to meet the problem.|It was also suggested that it would take a substantial period of time for the Secret Service to build up the experience and skills necessary to meet the problem.
LJ049-0193|Consequently the suggestion has been made, on the one hand, that all preventive investigative functions relating to the security of the President|Consequently the suggestion has been made, on the one hand, that all preventive investigative functions relating to the security of the President
LJ049-0194|should be transferred to the FBI,|should be transferred to the FBI,
LJ049-0195|leaving with the Secret Service only the responsibility for the physical protection of the President, that is, the guarding function alone.|leaving with the Secret Service only the responsibility for the physical protection of the President, that is, the guarding function alone.
LJ049-0196|On the other hand, it is urged that all features of the protection of the President and his family should be committed to an elite and independent corps.|On the other hand, it is urged that all features of the protection of the President and his family should be committed to an elite and independent corps.
LJ049-0197|It is also contended that the agents should be intimately associated with the life of the Presidential family|It is also contended that the agents should be intimately associated with the life of the Presidential family
LJ049-0198|in all its ramifications and alert to every danger that might befall it,|in all its ramifications and alert to every danger that might befall it,
LJ049-0199|and ready at any instant to hazard great danger to themselves in the performance of their tremendous responsibility.|and ready at any instant to hazard great danger to themselves in the performance of their tremendous responsibility.
LJ049-0200|It is suggested that an organization shorn of its power to investigate all the possibilities of danger to the President|It is suggested that an organization shorn of its power to investigate all the possibilities of danger to the President
LJ049-0201|and becoming merely the recipient of information gathered by others would become limited solely to acts of physical alertness and personal courage|and becoming merely the recipient of information gathered by others would become limited solely to acts of physical alertness and personal courage
LJ049-0202|incident to its responsibilities.|incident to its responsibilities.
LJ049-0203|So circumscribed, it could not maintain the esprit de corps or the necessary alertness for this unique and challenging responsibility.|So circumscribed, it could not maintain the esprit de corps or the necessary alertness for this unique and challenging responsibility.
LJ049-0204|While in accordance with its mandate|While in accordance with its mandate
LJ049-0205|this Commission has necessarily examined into the functioning of the various Federal agencies concerned with the tragic trip of President Kennedy to Dallas|this Commission has necessarily examined into the functioning of the various Federal agencies concerned with the tragic trip of President Kennedy to Dallas
LJ049-0206|and while it has arrived at certain conclusions in respect thereto, it seems clear|and while it has arrived at certain conclusions in respect thereto, it seems clear
LJ049-0207|that it was not within the Commission's responsibility to make specific recommendations as to the long-range organization of the President's protection,|that it was not within the Commission's responsibility to make specific recommendations as to the long-range organization of the President's protection,
LJ049-0208|except as conclusions flowing directly from its examination of the President's assassination can be drawn.|except as conclusions flowing directly from its examination of the President's assassination can be drawn.
LJ049-0209|The Commission was not asked to apply itself as did the Hoover Commission in 1949,|The Commission was not asked to apply itself as did the Hoover Commission in nineteen forty-nine,
LJ049-0210|for examples to a determination of the optimum organization of the President's protection.|for examples to a determination of the optimum organization of the President's protection.
LJ049-0211|It would have been necessary for the Commission to take considerable testimony, much of it extraneous to the facts of the assassination of President Kennedy,|It would have been necessary for the Commission to take considerable testimony, much of it extraneous to the facts of the assassination of President Kennedy,
LJ049-0212|to put it in a position to reach final conclusions in this respect.|to put it in a position to reach final conclusions in this respect.
LJ049-0213|There are always dangers of divided responsibility,|There are always dangers of divided responsibility,
LJ049-0214|duplication, and confusion of authority where more than one agency is operating in the same field; but on the other hand|duplication, and confusion of authority where more than one agency is operating in the same field; but on the other hand
LJ049-0215|the protection of the President is in a real sense a Government-wide responsibility which must necessarily assumed by the Department of State,|the protection of the President is in a real sense a Government-wide responsibility which must necessarily assumed by the Department of State,
LJ049-0216|the FBI, the CIA, and the military intelligence agencies as well as the Secret Service.|the FBI, the CIA, and the military intelligence agencies as well as the Secret Service.
LJ049-0217|Moreover, a number of imponderable questions have to be weighed if any change in the intimate association now established|Moreover, a number of imponderable questions have to be weighed if any change in the intimate association now established
LJ049-0218|between the Secret Service and the President and his family is contemplated.|between the Secret Service and the President and his family is contemplated.
LJ049-0219|These considerations have induced the Commission to believe|These considerations have induced the Commission to believe
LJ049-0220|that the determination of whether or not there should be a relocation of responsibilities and functions should be left to the Executive and the Congress,|that the determination of whether or not there should be a relocation of responsibilities and functions should be left to the Executive and the Congress,
LJ049-0221|perhaps upon recommendations based on further studies by the Cabinet-level committee recommended above or the National Security Council.|perhaps upon recommendations based on further studies by the Cabinet-level committee recommended above or the National Security Council.
LJ049-0222|Pending any such determination, however, this Commission is convinced of the necessity of better coordination|Pending any such determination, however, this Commission is convinced of the necessity of better coordination
LJ049-0223|and direction of the activities of all existing agencies of Government which are in a position to and do, furnish information|and direction of the activities of all existing agencies of Government which are in a position to and do, furnish information
LJ049-0224|and services related to the security of the President.|and services related to the security of the President.
LJ049-0225|The Commission feels the Secret Service and the FBI, as well as the State Department and the CIA when the President travels abroad,|The Commission feels the Secret Service and the FBI, as well as the State Department and the CIA when the President travels abroad,
LJ049-0226|could improve their existing capacities and procedures so as to lessen the chances of assassination.|could improve their existing capacities and procedures so as to lessen the chances of assassination.
LJ049-0227|Without, therefore, coming to final conclusions respecting the long-range organization of the President's security,|Without, therefore, coming to final conclusions respecting the long-range organization of the President's security,
LJ049-0228|the Commission believes that the facts of the assassination of President Kennedy point to certain measures which,|the Commission believes that the facts of the assassination of President Kennedy point to certain measures which,
LJ049-0229|while assuming no radical relocation of responsibilities,|while assuming no radical relocation of responsibilities,
LJ049-0230|can and should be recommended by this Commission in the interest of the more efficient protection of the President.|can and should be recommended by this Commission in the interest of the more efficient protection of the President.
LJ050-0001|For more information, or to volunteer, please visit librivox dot org. Report of the President's Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy.|For more information, or to volunteer, please visit librivox dot org. Report of the President's Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy.
LJ050-0002|The Warren Commission Report.|The Warren Commission Report.
LJ050-0003|By The President's Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy. Chapter 8. The Protection of the President. Part 5.|By The President's Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy. Chapter eight. The Protection of the President. Part five.
LJ050-0004|General Supervision of the Secret Service|General Supervision of the Secret Service
LJ050-0005|The intimacy of the Secret Service's relationship to the White House|The intimacy of the Secret Service's relationship to the White House
LJ050-0006|and the dissimilarity of its protective functions to most activities of the Department of the Treasury|and the dissimilarity of its protective functions to most activities of the Department of the Treasury
LJ050-0007|have made it difficult for the Treasury to maintain close and continuing supervision.|have made it difficult for the Treasury to maintain close and continuing supervision.
LJ050-0008|The Commission believes that the recommended Cabinet-level committee will help to correct many of the major deficiencies of supervision|The Commission believes that the recommended Cabinet-level committee will help to correct many of the major deficiencies of supervision
LJ050-0009|disclosed by the Commission's investigation. Other measures should be taken as well to improve the overall operation of the Secret Service.|disclosed by the Commission's investigation. Other measures should be taken as well to improve the overall operation of the Secret Service.
LJ050-0010|Daily supervision of the operations of the Secret Service within the Department of the Treasury should be improved.|Daily supervision of the operations of the Secret Service within the Department of the Treasury should be improved.
LJ050-0011|The Chief of the Service now reports to the Secretary of the Treasury|The Chief of the Service now reports to the Secretary of the Treasury
LJ050-0012|through an Assistant Secretary whose duties also include the direct supervision of the Bureau of the Mint|through an Assistant Secretary whose duties also include the direct supervision of the Bureau of the Mint
LJ050-0013|and the Department's Employment Policy Program, and who also represents the Secretary of the Treasury on various committees and groups.|and the Department's Employment Policy Program, and who also represents the Secretary of the Treasury on various committees and groups.
LJ050-0014|The incumbent has no technical qualifications in the area of Presidential protection.|The incumbent has no technical qualifications in the area of Presidential protection.
LJ050-0015|The Commission recommends that the Secretary of the Treasury appoint a special assistant with the responsibility of supervising the Service.|The Commission recommends that the Secretary of the Treasury appoint a special assistant with the responsibility of supervising the Service.
LJ050-0016|This special assistant should be required to have sufficient stature and experience in law enforcement, intelligence, or allied fields|This special assistant should be required to have sufficient stature and experience in law enforcement, intelligence, or allied fields
LJ050-0017|to be able to provide effective continuing supervision|to be able to provide effective continuing supervision
LJ050-0018|and to keep the Secretary fully informed regarding all significant developments relating to Presidential protection.|and to keep the Secretary fully informed regarding all significant developments relating to Presidential protection.
LJ050-0019|This report has already pointed out several respects|This report has already pointed out several respects
LJ050-0020|in which the Commission believes that the Secret Service has operated with insufficient planning or control.|in which the Commission believes that the Secret Service has operated with insufficient planning or control.
LJ050-0021|Actions by the Service since the assassination indicate its awareness of the necessity for substantial improvement in its administration.|Actions by the Service since the assassination indicate its awareness of the necessity for substantial improvement in its administration.
LJ050-0022|A formal and thorough description of the responsibilities of the advance agent is now in preparation by the Service.|A formal and thorough description of the responsibilities of the advance agent is now in preparation by the Service.
LJ050-0023|Work is going forward|Work is going forward
LJ050-0024|toward the preparation of formal understandings of the respective roles of the Secret Service and other agencies with which it collaborates|toward the preparation of formal understandings of the respective roles of the Secret Service and other agencies with which it collaborates
LJ050-0025|or from which it derives assistance and support.|or from which it derives assistance and support.
LJ050-0026|The Commission urges that the Service continue this effort to overhaul and define its procedures.|The Commission urges that the Service continue this effort to overhaul and define its procedures.
LJ050-0027|While manuals and memoranda are no guarantee of effective operations,|While manuals and memoranda are no guarantee of effective operations,
LJ050-0028|no sizable organization can achieve efficiency without the careful analysis and demarcation of responsibility|no sizable organization can achieve efficiency without the careful analysis and demarcation of responsibility
LJ050-0029|that is reflected in definite and comprehensive operating procedures.|that is reflected in definite and comprehensive operating procedures.
LJ050-0030|The Commission also recommends|The Commission also recommends
LJ050-0031|that the Secret Service consciously set about the task of inculcating and maintaining the highest standard of excellence and esprit, for all of its personnel.|that the Secret Service consciously set about the task of inculcating and maintaining the highest standard of excellence and esprit, for all of its personnel.
LJ050-0032|This involves tight and unswerving discipline as well as the promotion of an outstanding degree of dedication and loyalty to duty.|This involves tight and unswerving discipline as well as the promotion of an outstanding degree of dedication and loyalty to duty.
LJ050-0033|The Commission emphasizes that it finds no causal connection between the assassination|The Commission emphasizes that it finds no causal connection between the assassination
LJ050-0034|and the breach of regulations which occurred on the night of November 21 at Fort Worth.|and the breach of regulations which occurred on the night of November twenty-one at Fort Worth.
LJ050-0035|Nevertheless, such a breach, in which so many agents participated,|Nevertheless, such a breach, in which so many agents participated,
LJ050-0036|is not consistent with the standards which the responsibilities of the Secret Service require it to meet.|is not consistent with the standards which the responsibilities of the Secret Service require it to meet.
LJ050-0037|Preventive Intelligence|Preventive Intelligence
LJ050-0038|In attempting to identify those individuals who might prove a danger to the President,|In attempting to identify those individuals who might prove a danger to the President,
LJ050-0039|the Secret Service has largely been the passive recipient of threatening communications to the President|the Secret Service has largely been the passive recipient of threatening communications to the President
LJ050-0040|and reports from other agencies which independently evaluate their information for potential sources of danger.|and reports from other agencies which independently evaluate their information for potential sources of danger.
LJ050-0041|This was the consequence of the Service's lack of an adequate investigative staff,|This was the consequence of the Service's lack of an adequate investigative staff,
LJ050-0042|its inability to process large amounts of data, and its failure to provide specific descriptions of the kind of information it sought.|its inability to process large amounts of data, and its failure to provide specific descriptions of the kind of information it sought.
LJ050-0043|The Secret Service has embarked upon a complete overhaul of its research activities. The staff of the Protective Research Section (PRS)|The Secret Service has embarked upon a complete overhaul of its research activities. The staff of the Protective Research Section (PRS)
LJ050-0044|has been augmented, and a Secret Service inspector has been put in charge of this operation. With the assistance of the President's Office of Science and Technology,|has been augmented, and a Secret Service inspector has been put in charge of this operation. With the assistance of the President's Office of Science and Technology,
LJ050-0045|and of the Advanced Research Projects Agency of the Department of Defense,|and of the Advanced Research Projects Agency of the Department of Defense,
LJ050-0046|it has obtained the services of outside consultants, such as the Rand Corporation,|it has obtained the services of outside consultants, such as the Rand Corporation,
LJ050-0047|International Business Machines Corporation, and a panel of psychiatric and psychological experts.|International Business Machines Corporation, and a panel of psychiatric and psychological experts.
LJ050-0048|It has received assistance also from data processing experts at the CIA|It has received assistance also from data processing experts at the CIA
LJ050-0050|As a result of these studies, the planning document submitted by the Secretary of the Treasury to the Bureau of the Budget on August 31,|As a result of these studies, the planning document submitted by the Secretary of the Treasury to the Bureau of the Budget on August thirty-one,
LJ050-0051|1964, makes several significant recommendations in this field.|nineteen sixty-four, makes several significant recommendations in this field.
LJ050-0052|Based on the Commission's investigation, the following minimum goals for improvements are indicated:|Based on the Commission's investigation, the following minimum goals for improvements are indicated:
LJ050-0053|Broader and more selective criteria|Broader and more selective criteria
LJ050-0054|Since the assassination, both the Secret Service and the FBI have recognized|Since the assassination, both the Secret Service and the FBI have recognized
LJ050-0055|that the PRS files can no longer be limited largely to persons communicating actual threats to the President.|that the PRS files can no longer be limited largely to persons communicating actual threats to the President.
LJ050-0056|On December 26, 1963, the FBI circulated additional instructions to all its agents,|On December twenty-six, nineteen sixty-three, the FBI circulated additional instructions to all its agents,
LJ050-0057|specifying criteria for information to be furnished to the Secret Service in addition to that covered by the former standard,|specifying criteria for information to be furnished to the Secret Service in addition to that covered by the former standard,
LJ050-0058|which was the possibility of an attempt against the person or safety of the President.|which was the possibility of an attempt against the person or safety of the President.
LJ050-0059|he new instructions require FBI agents to report immediately information concerning, quote,|he new instructions require FBI agents to report immediately information concerning, quote,
LJ050-0060|Subversives, ultrarightists, racists and fascists (a) possessing emotional instability or irrational behavior,|Subversives, ultrarightists, racists and fascists (a) possessing emotional instability or irrational behavior,
LJ050-0061|(b) who have made threats of bodily harm against officials or employees of Federal, state or local government or officials of a foreign government,|(b) who have made threats of bodily harm against officials or employees of Federal, state or local government or officials of a foreign government,
LJ050-0062|(c) who express or have expressed strong or violent anti-U.S. sentiments|(c) who express or have expressed strong or violent anti-U.S. sentiments
LJ050-0063|and who have been involved in bombing or bomb-making or whose past conduct indicates tendencies toward violence, and (d)|and who have been involved in bombing or bomb-making or whose past conduct indicates tendencies toward violence, and (d)
LJ050-0064|whose prior acts or statements depict propensity for violence and hatred against organized government, end quote.|whose prior acts or statements depict propensity for violence and hatred against organized government, end quote.
LJ050-0065|Alan H. Belmont, Assistant to the Director of the FBI, testified that this revision was initiated by the FBI itself.|Alan H. Belmont, Assistant to the Director of the FBI, testified that this revision was initiated by the FBI itself.
LJ050-0066|The volume of references to the Secret Service has increased substantially since the new instructions went into effect;|The volume of references to the Secret Service has increased substantially since the new instructions went into effect;
LJ050-0067|more than 5,000 names were referred to the Secret Service in the first 4 months of 1964.|more than five thousand names were referred to the Secret Service in the first four months of nineteen sixty-four.
LJ050-0068|According to Chief Rowley, by mid-June 1964,|According to Chief Rowley, by mid-June nineteen sixty-four,
LJ050-0069|the Secret Service had received from the FBI some 9,000 reports on members of the Communist Party.|the Secret Service had received from the FBI some nine thousand reports on members of the Communist Party.
LJ050-0070|The FBI now transmits information on all defectors, a category which would, of course, have included Oswald.|The FBI now transmits information on all defectors, a category which would, of course, have included Oswald.
LJ050-0071|Both Director Hoover and Belmont expressed to the Commission the great concern of the FBI, which is shared by the Secret Service,|Both Director Hoover and Belmont expressed to the Commission the great concern of the FBI, which is shared by the Secret Service,
LJ050-0072|that referrals to the Secret Service under the new criteria might, if not properly handled,|that referrals to the Secret Service under the new criteria might, if not properly handled,
LJ050-0073|result in some degree of interference with the personal liberty of those involved.|result in some degree of interference with the personal liberty of those involved.
LJ050-0074|They emphasized the necessity that the information now being furnished be handled with judgment and care.|They emphasized the necessity that the information now being furnished be handled with judgment and care.
LJ050-0075|The Commission shares this concern.|The Commission shares this concern.
LJ050-0076|The problem is aggravated by the necessity that the Service obtain the assistance of local law enforcement officials in evaluating the information which it receives|The problem is aggravated by the necessity that the Service obtain the assistance of local law enforcement officials in evaluating the information which it receives
LJ050-0077|and in taking preventive steps.|and in taking preventive steps.
LJ050-0078|In June 1964, the Secret Service sent to a number of Federal law enforcement and intelligence agencies|In June nineteen sixty-four, the Secret Service sent to a number of Federal law enforcement and intelligence agencies
LJ050-0079|guidelines for an experimental program to develop more detailed criteria.|guidelines for an experimental program to develop more detailed criteria.
LJ050-0080|The suggestions of Federal agencies for revision of these guidelines were solicited.|The suggestions of Federal agencies for revision of these guidelines were solicited.
LJ050-0081|The new tentative criteria are useful in making clear that|The new tentative criteria are useful in making clear that
LJ050-0082|the interest of the Secret Service goes beyond information on individuals or groups threatening to cause harm or embarrassment to the President.|the interest of the Secret Service goes beyond information on individuals or groups threatening to cause harm or embarrassment to the President.
LJ050-0083|Information is requested also concerning individuals or groups who have demonstrated an interest in the President|Information is requested also concerning individuals or groups who have demonstrated an interest in the President
LJ050-0084|or, quote, other high government officials in the nature of a complaint coupled with an expressed or implied determination to use a means,|or, quote, other high government officials in the nature of a complaint coupled with an expressed or implied determination to use a means,
LJ050-0085|other than legal or peaceful, to satisfy any grievance, real or imagined.|other than legal or peaceful, to satisfy any grievance, real or imagined.
LJ050-0086|Under these criteria, whether the case should be referred to the Secret Service depends on the existence of a previous history of mental instability,|Under these criteria, whether the case should be referred to the Secret Service depends on the existence of a previous history of mental instability,
LJ050-0087|propensity toward violent action, or some similar characteristic, coupled with some evaluation of the capability of the individual or group|propensity toward violent action, or some similar characteristic, coupled with some evaluation of the capability of the individual or group
LJ050-0088|to further the intention to satisfy a grievance by unlawful means.|to further the intention to satisfy a grievance by unlawful means.
LJ050-0089|While these tentative criteria are a step in the right direction,|While these tentative criteria are a step in the right direction,
LJ050-0090|they seem unduly restrictive in continuing to require some manifestation of animus against a Government official.|they seem unduly restrictive in continuing to require some manifestation of animus against a Government official.
LJ050-0091|It is questionable whether such criteria would have resulted in the referral of Oswald to the Secret Service.|It is questionable whether such criteria would have resulted in the referral of Oswald to the Secret Service.
LJ050-0092|Chief Rowley believed that they would,|Chief Rowley believed that they would,
LJ050-0093|because of Oswald's demonstrated hostility toward the Secretary of the Navy in his letter of January 30, 1962. Quote,|because of Oswald's demonstrated hostility toward the Secretary of the Navy in his letter of January thirty, nineteen sixty-two. Quote,
LJ050-0094|I shall employ all means to right this gross mistake or injustice to a bona fide U.S. citizen and ex-service man.|I shall employ all means to right this gross mistake or injustice to a bona fide U.S. citizen and ex-service man.
LJ050-0095|The U.S. government has no charges or complaints against me.|The U.S. government has no charges or complaints against me.
LJ050-0096|I ask you to look into this case and take the necessary steps to repair the damage done to me and my family. End quote.|I ask you to look into this case and take the necessary steps to repair the damage done to me and my family. End quote.
LJ050-0097|Even with the advantage of hindsight, this letter does not appear to express or imply Oswald's, quote,|Even with the advantage of hindsight, this letter does not appear to express or imply Oswald's, quote,
LJ050-0098|determination to use a means, other than legal or peaceful, to satisfy his grievance, end quote, within the meaning of the new criteria.|determination to use a means, other than legal or peaceful, to satisfy his grievance, end quote, within the meaning of the new criteria.
LJ050-0099|It is apparent that a good deal of further consideration and experimentation will be required before adequate criteria can be framed.|It is apparent that a good deal of further consideration and experimentation will be required before adequate criteria can be framed.
LJ050-0100|The Commission recognizes that no set of meaningful criteria will yield the names of all potential assassins. Charles J. Guiteau,|The Commission recognizes that no set of meaningful criteria will yield the names of all potential assassins. Charles J. Guiteau,
LJ050-0101|Leon F. Czolgosz,|Leon F. Czolgosz,
LJ050-0102|John Schrank, and Guiseppe Zangara -- four assassins or would-be assassins|John Schrank, and Guiseppe Zangara -- four assassins or would-be assassins
LJ050-0103|were all men who acted alone in their criminal acts against our leaders. None had a serious record of prior violence.|were all men who acted alone in their criminal acts against our leaders. None had a serious record of prior violence.
LJ050-0104|Each of them was a failure in his work and in his relations with others, a victim of delusions and fancies which led to the conviction|Each of them was a failure in his work and in his relations with others, a victim of delusions and fancies which led to the conviction
LJ050-0105|that society and its leaders had combined to thwart him. It will require every available resource of our Government|that society and its leaders had combined to thwart him. It will require every available resource of our Government
LJ050-0106|to devise a practical system which has any reasonable possibility of revealing such malcontents.|to devise a practical system which has any reasonable possibility of revealing such malcontents.
LJ050-0107|Liaison with other agencies regarding intelligence.|Liaison with other agencies regarding intelligence.
LJ050-0108|The Secret Service's liaison with the agencies that supply information to it has been too casual.|The Secret Service's liaison with the agencies that supply information to it has been too casual.
LJ050-0109|Since the assassination, the Service has recognized that these relationships must be far more formal|Since the assassination, the Service has recognized that these relationships must be far more formal
LJ050-0110|and each agency given clear understanding of the assistance which the Secret Service expects.|and each agency given clear understanding of the assistance which the Secret Service expects.
LJ050-0111|Once the Secret Service has formulated its new standards for collection of information, it should enter into written agreements with each Federal agency|Once the Secret Service has formulated its new standards for collection of information, it should enter into written agreements with each Federal agency
LJ050-0112|and the leading State and local agencies that might be a source of such information.|and the leading State and local agencies that might be a source of such information.
LJ050-0114|and the respective responsibilities for any further investigation that may be required.|and the respective responsibilities for any further investigation that may be required.
LJ050-0115|This is especially necessary with regard to the FBI and CIA,|This is especially necessary with regard to the FBI and CIA,
LJ050-0116|which carry the major responsibility for supplying information about potential threats,|which carry the major responsibility for supplying information about potential threats,
LJ050-0117|particularly those arising from organized groups, within their special jurisdiction.|particularly those arising from organized groups, within their special jurisdiction.
LJ050-0118|Since these agencies are already obliged constantly to evaluate the activities of such groups,|Since these agencies are already obliged constantly to evaluate the activities of such groups,
LJ050-0119|they should be responsible for advising the Secret Service if information develops indicating the existence of an assassination plot|they should be responsible for advising the Secret Service if information develops indicating the existence of an assassination plot
LJ050-0120|and for reporting such events as a change in leadership or dogma which indicate that the group may present a danger to the President.|and for reporting such events as a change in leadership or dogma which indicate that the group may present a danger to the President.
LJ050-0121|Detailed formal agreements embodying these arrangements should be worked out between the Secret Service and both of these agencies.|Detailed formal agreements embodying these arrangements should be worked out between the Secret Service and both of these agencies.
LJ050-0122|It should be made clear that the Secret Service will in no way seek to duplicate the intelligence|It should be made clear that the Secret Service will in no way seek to duplicate the intelligence
LJ050-0123|and investigative capabilities of the agencies now operating in this field but will continue|and investigative capabilities of the agencies now operating in this field but will continue
LJ050-0124|to use the data developed by these agencies to carry out its special duties.|to use the data developed by these agencies to carry out its special duties.
LJ050-0125|Once experience has been gained in implementing such agreements with the Federal and leading State and local agencies,|Once experience has been gained in implementing such agreements with the Federal and leading State and local agencies,
LJ050-0126|the Secret Service, through its field offices,|the Secret Service, through its field offices,
LJ050-0127|should negotiate similar arrangements with such other State and local law enforcement agencies as may provide meaningful assistance.|should negotiate similar arrangements with such other State and local law enforcement agencies as may provide meaningful assistance.
LJ050-0128|Much useful information will come to the attention of local law enforcement agencies in the regular course of their activities,|Much useful information will come to the attention of local law enforcement agencies in the regular course of their activities,
LJ050-0129|and this source should not be neglected by undue concentration on relationships with other Federal agencies.|and this source should not be neglected by undue concentration on relationships with other Federal agencies.
LJ050-0130|Finally, these agreements with Federal and local authorities will be of little value|Finally, these agreements with Federal and local authorities will be of little value
LJ050-0131|unless a system is established for the frequent formal review of activities thereunder. In this regard|unless a system is established for the frequent formal review of activities thereunder. In this regard
LJ050-0132|the Commission notes with approval several recent measures taken and proposed by the Secret Service to improve its liaison arrangements.|the Commission notes with approval several recent measures taken and proposed by the Secret Service to improve its liaison arrangements.
LJ050-0133|In his testimony Secretary of the Treasury C. Douglas Dillon informed the Commission|In his testimony Secretary of the Treasury C. Douglas Dillon informed the Commission
LJ050-0134|that an interagency committee has been established to develop more effective criteria.|that an interagency committee has been established to develop more effective criteria.
LJ050-0135|According to Secretary Dillon,|According to Secretary Dillon,
LJ050-0136|the Committee will include representatives of the President's Office of Science and Technology, Department of Defense, CIA,|the Committee will include representatives of the President's Office of Science and Technology, Department of Defense, CIA,
LJ050-0137|FBI, and the Secret Service.|FBI, and the Secret Service.
LJ050-0138|In addition, the Department of the Treasury has requested five additional agents for its Protective Research Section|In addition, the Department of the Treasury has requested five additional agents for its Protective Research Section
LJ050-0139|to serve as liaison officers with law enforcement and intelligence agencies. On the basis of the Department's review during the past several months,|to serve as liaison officers with law enforcement and intelligence agencies. On the basis of the Department's review during the past several months,
LJ050-0140|Secretary Dillon testified that the use of such liaison officers is the only effective way to insure that adequate liaison is maintained.|Secretary Dillon testified that the use of such liaison officers is the only effective way to insure that adequate liaison is maintained.
LJ050-0141|As a beginning step to improve liaison with local law enforcement officials, the Secret Service on August 26, 1964,|As a beginning step to improve liaison with local law enforcement officials, the Secret Service on August twenty-six, nineteen sixty-four,
LJ050-0142|directed its field representatives to send a form request for intelligence information to all local,|directed its field representatives to send a form request for intelligence information to all local,
LJ050-0143|county, and State law enforcement agencies in their districts.|county, and State law enforcement agencies in their districts.
LJ050-0144|Each of these efforts appears sound,|Each of these efforts appears sound,
LJ050-0145|and the Commission recommends that these and the other measures suggested by the Commission be pursued vigorously by Secret Service.|and the Commission recommends that these and the other measures suggested by the Commission be pursued vigorously by Secret Service.
LJ050-0146|Automatic data processing|Automatic data processing
LJ050-0147|Unless the Secret Service is able to deal rapidly and accurately with a growing body of data,|Unless the Secret Service is able to deal rapidly and accurately with a growing body of data,
LJ050-0148|the increased information supplied by other agencies will be wasted.|the increased information supplied by other agencies will be wasted.
LJ050-0149|PRS must develop the capacity to classify its subjects on a more sophisticated basis than the present geographic breakdown.|PRS must develop the capacity to classify its subjects on a more sophisticated basis than the present geographic breakdown.
LJ050-0151|it makes no use of the recent developments in automatic data processing which are widely used in the business world and in other Government offices.|it makes no use of the recent developments in automatic data processing which are widely used in the business world and in other Government offices.
LJ050-0152|The Secret Service and the Department of the Treasury now recognize this critical need.|The Secret Service and the Department of the Treasury now recognize this critical need.
LJ050-0153|In the planning document currently under review by the Bureau of the Budget, the Department recommends that it be permitted to hire five qualified persons, quote,|In the planning document currently under review by the Bureau of the Budget, the Department recommends that it be permitted to hire five qualified persons, quote,
LJ050-0154|to plan and develop a workable and efficient automated file and retrieval system, end quote.|to plan and develop a workable and efficient automated file and retrieval system, end quote.
LJ050-0155|Also the Department requests the sum of $100,000 to conduct a detailed feasibility study;|Also the Department requests the sum of one hundred thousand dollars to conduct a detailed feasibility study;
LJ050-0156|this money would be used to compensate consultants, to lease standard equipment or to purchase specially designed pilot equipment.|this money would be used to compensate consultants, to lease standard equipment or to purchase specially designed pilot equipment.
LJ050-0157|On the basis of such a feasibility study,|On the basis of such a feasibility study,
LJ050-0158|the Department hopes to design a practical system which will fully meet the needs of the Protective Research Section of the Secret Service.|the Department hopes to design a practical system which will fully meet the needs of the Protective Research Section of the Secret Service.
LJ050-0159|The Commission recommends that prompt and favorable consideration be given to this request.|The Commission recommends that prompt and favorable consideration be given to this request.
LJ050-0160|The Commission further recommends that the Secret Service coordinate its planning as closely as possible with all of the Federal agencies from which it receives information.|The Commission further recommends that the Secret Service coordinate its planning as closely as possible with all of the Federal agencies from which it receives information.
LJ050-0161|The Secret Service should not and does not plan to develop its own intelligence gathering facilities to duplicate the existing facilities of other Federal agencies.|The Secret Service should not and does not plan to develop its own intelligence gathering facilities to duplicate the existing facilities of other Federal agencies.
LJ050-0162|In planning its data processing techniques,|In planning its data processing techniques,
LJ050-0163|the Secret Service should attempt to develop a system compatible with those of the agencies from which most of its data will come. Note:|the Secret Service should attempt to develop a system compatible with those of the agencies from which most of its data will come. Note:
LJ050-0164|In evaluating data processing techniques of the Secret Service,|In evaluating data processing techniques of the Secret Service,
LJ050-0165|the Commission had occasion to become informed, to a limited extent, about the data processing techniques of other Federal intelligence and law enforcement agencies.|the Commission had occasion to become informed, to a limited extent, about the data processing techniques of other Federal intelligence and law enforcement agencies.
LJ050-0166|The Commission was struck by the apparent lack of effort, on an interagency basis,|The Commission was struck by the apparent lack of effort, on an interagency basis,
LJ050-0167|to develop coordinated and mutually compatible systems, even where such coordination would not seem inconsistent|to develop coordinated and mutually compatible systems, even where such coordination would not seem inconsistent
LJ050-0168|with the particular purposes of the agency involved. The Commission recognizes that this is a controversial area|with the particular purposes of the agency involved. The Commission recognizes that this is a controversial area
LJ050-0169|and that many strongly held views are advanced in resistance to any suggestion that an effort be made to impose any degree of coordination.|and that many strongly held views are advanced in resistance to any suggestion that an effort be made to impose any degree of coordination.
LJ050-0170|This matter is obviously beyond the jurisdiction of the Commission,|This matter is obviously beyond the jurisdiction of the Commission,
LJ050-0171|but it seems to warrant further study before each agency becomes irrevocably committed to separate action.|but it seems to warrant further study before each agency becomes irrevocably committed to separate action.
LJ050-0172|The Commission, therefore, recommends that the President consider ordering an inquiry into the possibility|The Commission, therefore, recommends that the President consider ordering an inquiry into the possibility
LJ050-0173|that coordination might be achieved to a greater extent than seems now to be contemplated, without interference with the primary mission of each agency involved.|that coordination might be achieved to a greater extent than seems now to be contemplated, without interference with the primary mission of each agency involved.
LJ050-0174|Protective Research participation in advance arrangements.|Protective Research participation in advance arrangements.
LJ050-0175|Since the assassination, Secret Service procedures have been changed to require that a member of PRS accompany each advance survey team|Since the assassination, Secret Service procedures have been changed to require that a member of PRS accompany each advance survey team
LJ050-0176|to establish liaison with local intelligence gathering agencies and to provide for the immediate evaluation of information received from them.|to establish liaison with local intelligence gathering agencies and to provide for the immediate evaluation of information received from them.
LJ050-0177|This PRS agent will also be responsible for establishing an informal local liaison committee|This PRS agent will also be responsible for establishing an informal local liaison committee
LJ050-0178|to make certain that all protective intelligence activities are coordinated.|to make certain that all protective intelligence activities are coordinated.
LJ050-0179|Based on its experience during this period, the Secret Service now recommends that additional personnel be made available to PRS|Based on its experience during this period, the Secret Service now recommends that additional personnel be made available to PRS
LJ050-0180|so that these arrangements can be made permanent without adversely affecting the operations of the Service's field offices.|so that these arrangements can be made permanent without adversely affecting the operations of the Service's field offices.
LJ050-0181|The Commission regards this as a most useful innovation and urges that the practice be continued.|The Commission regards this as a most useful innovation and urges that the practice be continued.
LJ050-0182|Liaison With Local Law Enforcement Agencies|Liaison With Local Law Enforcement Agencies
LJ050-0183|Advice by the Secret Service to local police in metropolitan areas relating to the assistance expected in connection with a Presidential visit|Advice by the Secret Service to local police in metropolitan areas relating to the assistance expected in connection with a Presidential visit
LJ050-0184|has hitherto been handled on an informal basis.|has hitherto been handled on an informal basis.
LJ050-0185|The Service should consider preparing formal explanations of the cooperation anticipated during a Presidential visit to a city,|The Service should consider preparing formal explanations of the cooperation anticipated during a Presidential visit to a city,
LJ050-0186|in formats that can be communicated to each level of local authorities.|in formats that can be communicated to each level of local authorities.
LJ050-0187|Thus, the local chief of police could be given a master plan, prepared for the occasion, of all protective measures to be taken during the visit;|Thus, the local chief of police could be given a master plan, prepared for the occasion, of all protective measures to be taken during the visit;
LJ050-0188|each patrolman might be given a prepared booklet of instructions explaining what is expected of him. The Secret Service has expressed concern|each patrolman might be given a prepared booklet of instructions explaining what is expected of him. The Secret Service has expressed concern
LJ050-0190|However, the instructions must be communicated to the local police in any event and can be leaked to the press whether or not they are in writing.|However, the instructions must be communicated to the local police in any event and can be leaked to the press whether or not they are in writing.
LJ050-0191|More importantly, the lack of carefully prepared and carefully transmitted instructions for typical visits to cities|More importantly, the lack of carefully prepared and carefully transmitted instructions for typical visits to cities
LJ050-0192|can lead to lapses in protection, such as the confusion in Dallas about whether members of the public were permitted on overpasses.|can lead to lapses in protection, such as the confusion in Dallas about whether members of the public were permitted on overpasses.
LJ050-0193|Such instructions will not fit all circumstances, of course,|Such instructions will not fit all circumstances, of course,
LJ050-0194|and should not be relied upon to the detriment of the imaginative application of judgment in special cases.|and should not be relied upon to the detriment of the imaginative application of judgment in special cases.
LJ050-0195|Inspection of Buildings|Inspection of Buildings
LJ050-0196|Since the assassination of President Kennedy, the Secret Service has been experimenting with new techniques in the inspection of buildings along a motorcade route.|Since the assassination of President Kennedy, the Secret Service has been experimenting with new techniques in the inspection of buildings along a motorcade route.
LJ050-0197|According to Secretary Dillon,|According to Secretary Dillon,
LJ050-0198|the studies indicate that there is some utility in attempting to designate certain buildings as involving a higher risk than others.|the studies indicate that there is some utility in attempting to designate certain buildings as involving a higher risk than others.
LJ050-0199|The Commission strongly encourages these efforts to improve protection along a motorcade route.|The Commission strongly encourages these efforts to improve protection along a motorcade route.
LJ050-0200|The Secret Service should utilize the personnel of other Federal law enforcement offices|The Secret Service should utilize the personnel of other Federal law enforcement offices
LJ050-0201|in the locality to assure adequate manpower for this task, as it is now doing.|in the locality to assure adequate manpower for this task, as it is now doing.
LJ050-0202|Lack of adequate resources is an unacceptable excuse for failing to improve advance precautions|Lack of adequate resources is an unacceptable excuse for failing to improve advance precautions
LJ050-0203|in this crucial area of Presidential protection.|in this crucial area of Presidential protection.
LJ050-0204|Secret Service Personnel and Facilities|Secret Service Personnel and Facilities
LJ050-0205|Testimony and other evidence before the Commission|Testimony and other evidence before the Commission
LJ050-0206|suggest that the Secret Service is trying to accomplish its job with too few people and without adequate modern equipment.|suggest that the Secret Service is trying to accomplish its job with too few people and without adequate modern equipment.
LJ050-0207|Although Chief Rowley does not complain about the pay scale for Secret Service agents,|Although Chief Rowley does not complain about the pay scale for Secret Service agents,
LJ050-0208|salaries are below those of the FBI and leading municipal police forces.|salaries are below those of the FBI and leading municipal police forces.
LJ050-0209|The assistant to the Director of the FBI testified that|The assistant to the Director of the FBI testified that
LJ050-0210|the caseload of each FBI agent averaged 20 to 25, and he felt that this was high.|the caseload of each FBI agent averaged twenty to twenty-five, and he felt that this was high.
LJ050-0211|Chief Rowley testified that the present workload of each Secret Service agent averages 110.1 cases.|Chief Rowley testified that the present workload of each Secret Service agent averages one hundred ten point one cases.
LJ050-0212|While these statistics relate to the activities of Secret Service agents stationed in field offices and not the White House detail,|While these statistics relate to the activities of Secret Service agents stationed in field offices and not the White House detail,
LJ050-0213|field agents supplement those on the detail, particularly when the President is traveling.|field agents supplement those on the detail, particularly when the President is traveling.
LJ050-0214|Although the Commission does not know whether the cases involved are entirely comparable,|Although the Commission does not know whether the cases involved are entirely comparable,
LJ050-0215|these figures suggest that the agents of the Secret Service are substantially overworked.|these figures suggest that the agents of the Secret Service are substantially overworked.
LJ050-0216|In its budget request for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 1964,|In its budget request for the fiscal year beginning July one, nineteen sixty-four,
LJ050-0217|the Secret Service sought funds for 25 new positions, primarily in field offices. This increase has been approved by the Congress.|the Secret Service sought funds for twenty-five new positions, primarily in field offices. This increase has been approved by the Congress.
LJ050-0218|Chief Rowley explained that this would not provide enough additional manpower to take all the measures which he considers required.|Chief Rowley explained that this would not provide enough additional manpower to take all the measures which he considers required.
LJ050-0219|However, the 1964 to 65 budget request was submitted in November 1963|However, the nineteen sixty-four to sixty-five budget request was submitted in November nineteen sixty-three
LJ050-0220|and requests for additional personnel were not made because of the studies then being conducted.|and requests for additional personnel were not made because of the studies then being conducted.
LJ050-0221|The Secret Service has now presented its recommendations to the Bureau of the Budget. The plan proposed by the Service|The Secret Service has now presented its recommendations to the Bureau of the Budget. The plan proposed by the Service
LJ050-0222|would take approximately 20 months to implement and require expenditures of approximately $3,000,000 during that period.|would take approximately twenty months to implement and require expenditures of approximately three million dollars during that period.
LJ050-0223|The plan provides for an additional 205 agents for the Secret Service. Seventeen of this number are proposed for the Protective Research Section;|The plan provides for an additional two hundred five agents for the Secret Service. Seventeen of this number are proposed for the Protective Research Section;
LJ050-0224|145 are proposed for the field offices to handle the increased volume of security investigations|one hundred forty-five are proposed for the field offices to handle the increased volume of security investigations
LJ050-0225|and be available to protect the President or Vice President when they travel;|and be available to protect the President or Vice President when they travel;
LJ050-0226|18 agents are proposed for a rotating pool which will go through an intensive training cycle and also be available to supplement the White House detail|eighteen agents are proposed for a rotating pool which will go through an intensive training cycle and also be available to supplement the White House detail
LJ050-0227|in case of unexpected need; and 25 additional agents are recommended to provide the Vice President full protection.|in case of unexpected need; and twenty-five additional agents are recommended to provide the Vice President full protection.
LJ050-0228|The Commission urges that the Bureau of the Budget review these recommendations with the Secret Service and authorize a request for the necessary supplemental appropriation,|The Commission urges that the Bureau of the Budget review these recommendations with the Secret Service and authorize a request for the necessary supplemental appropriation,
LJ050-0229|as soon as it can be justified. The Congress has often stressed that it will support any reasonable request for funds for the protection of the President.|as soon as it can be justified. The Congress has often stressed that it will support any reasonable request for funds for the protection of the President.
LJ050-0230|Manpower and Technical Assistance From Other Agencies|Manpower and Technical Assistance From Other Agencies
LJ050-0231|Before the assassination the Secret Service infrequently requested other Federal law enforcement agencies to provide personnel|Before the assassination the Secret Service infrequently requested other Federal law enforcement agencies to provide personnel
LJ050-0232|to assist in its protection functions.|to assist in its protection functions.
LJ050-0233|Since the assassination, the Service has experimented with the use of agents borrowed for short periods from such agencies.|Since the assassination, the Service has experimented with the use of agents borrowed for short periods from such agencies.
LJ050-0234|It has used other Treasury law enforcement agents on special experiments in building and route surveys in places to which the President frequently travels.|It has used other Treasury law enforcement agents on special experiments in building and route surveys in places to which the President frequently travels.
LJ050-0235|It has also used other Federal law enforcement agents during Presidential visits to cities in which such agents are stationed.|It has also used other Federal law enforcement agents during Presidential visits to cities in which such agents are stationed.
LJ050-0236|Thus, in the 4 months following the assassination,|Thus, in the four months following the assassination,
LJ050-0237|the FBI, on 16 separate occasions, supplied a total of 139 agents to assist in protection work during a Presidential visit,|the FBI, on sixteen separate occasions, supplied a total of one hundred thirty-nine agents to assist in protection work during a Presidential visit,
LJ050-0238|which represents a departure from its prior practice.|which represents a departure from its prior practice.
LJ050-0239|From February 11 through June 30, 1964,|From February eleven through June thirty, nineteen sixty-four,
LJ050-0240|the Service had the advantage of 9,500 hours of work by other enforcement agencies.|the Service had the advantage of nine thousand, five hundred hours of work by other enforcement agencies.
LJ050-0241|The FBI has indicated that it is willing to continue to make such assistance available,|The FBI has indicated that it is willing to continue to make such assistance available,
LJ050-0242|even though it agrees with the Secret Service that it is preferable for the Service to have enough agents to handle all protective demands.|even though it agrees with the Secret Service that it is preferable for the Service to have enough agents to handle all protective demands.
LJ050-0243|The Commission endorses these efforts to supplement the Service's own personnel by obtaining, for short periods of time,|The Commission endorses these efforts to supplement the Service's own personnel by obtaining, for short periods of time,
LJ050-0244|the assistance of trained Federal law enforcement officers.|the assistance of trained Federal law enforcement officers.
LJ050-0245|In view of the ever-increasing mobility of American Presidents, it seems unlikely that the Service could or should increase its own staff to a size|In view of the ever-increasing mobility of American Presidents, it seems unlikely that the Service could or should increase its own staff to a size
LJ050-0246|which would permit it to provide adequate protective manpower for all situations.|which would permit it to provide adequate protective manpower for all situations.
LJ050-0247|The Commission recommends that the agencies involved determine how much periodic assistance they can provide, and that each such agency|The Commission recommends that the agencies involved determine how much periodic assistance they can provide, and that each such agency
LJ050-0248|and the Secret Service enter into a formal agreement defining such arrangements.|and the Secret Service enter into a formal agreement defining such arrangements.
LJ050-0249|It may eventually be desirable to codify the practice in an Executive order.|It may eventually be desirable to codify the practice in an Executive order.
LJ050-0250|The Secret Service will be better able to plan its own long-range personnel requirements if it knows with reasonable certainty|The Secret Service will be better able to plan its own long-range personnel requirements if it knows with reasonable certainty
LJ050-0251|the amount of assistance that it can expect from other agencies.|the amount of assistance that it can expect from other agencies.
LJ050-0252|The occasional use of personnel from other Federal agencies to assist in protecting the President has a further advantage. It symbolizes the reality|The occasional use of personnel from other Federal agencies to assist in protecting the President has a further advantage. It symbolizes the reality
LJ050-0253|that the job of protecting the President has not been and cannot be exclusively the responsibility of the Secret Service.|that the job of protecting the President has not been and cannot be exclusively the responsibility of the Secret Service.
LJ050-0254|The Secret Service in the past has sometimes guarded its right to be acknowledged as the sole protector of the Chief Executive.|The Secret Service in the past has sometimes guarded its right to be acknowledged as the sole protector of the Chief Executive.
LJ050-0255|This no longer appears to be the case.|This no longer appears to be the case.
LJ050-0256|Protecting the President is a difficult and complex task which requires full use of the best resources of many parts of our Government.|Protecting the President is a difficult and complex task which requires full use of the best resources of many parts of our Government.
LJ050-0257|Recognition that the responsibility must be shared increases the likelihood that it will be met.|Recognition that the responsibility must be shared increases the likelihood that it will be met.
LJ050-0258|Much of the Secret Service work requires the development and use of highly sophisticated equipment,|Much of the Secret Service work requires the development and use of highly sophisticated equipment,
LJ050-0259|some of which must be specially designed to fit unique requirements. Even before the assassination, and to a far greater extent thereafter,|some of which must be specially designed to fit unique requirements. Even before the assassination, and to a far greater extent thereafter,
LJ050-0260|the Secret Service has been receiving full cooperation in scientific research and technological development|the Secret Service has been receiving full cooperation in scientific research and technological development
LJ050-0261|from many Government agencies including the Department of Defense and the President's Office of Science and Technology.|from many Government agencies including the Department of Defense and the President's Office of Science and Technology.
LJ050-0262|Even if the manpower and technological resources of the Secret Service are adequately augmented,|Even if the manpower and technological resources of the Secret Service are adequately augmented,
LJ050-0263|it will continue to rely in many respects upon the greater resources of the Office of Science and Technology and other agencies.|it will continue to rely in many respects upon the greater resources of the Office of Science and Technology and other agencies.
LJ050-0264|The Commission recommends that the present arrangements|The Commission recommends that the present arrangements
LJ050-0265|with the Office of Science and Technology and the other Federal agencies that have been so helpful to the Secret Service be placed on a permanent and formal basis.|with the Office of Science and Technology and the other Federal agencies that have been so helpful to the Secret Service be placed on a permanent and formal basis.
LJ050-0266|The exchange of letters dated August 31, 1964,|The exchange of letters dated August thirty-one, nineteen sixty-four,
LJ050-0267|between Secretary Dillon and Donald F. Hornig, Special Assistant to the President for Science and Technology, is a useful effort in the right direction.|between Secretary Dillon and Donald F. Hornig, Special Assistant to the President for Science and Technology, is a useful effort in the right direction.
LJ050-0268|The Service should negotiate a memorandum of understanding with each agency that has been assisting it and from which it can expect to need help in the future.|The Service should negotiate a memorandum of understanding with each agency that has been assisting it and from which it can expect to need help in the future.
